Hello, everyone. My name is Abhishek and welcome back to my channel. So today we are at day 36 of our complete DevOps course and in this class, we'll be talking about Kubernetes interview questions part one. Now, what is this and why I have decided to do this video because ideally today's class has to be on the practical services implementation and introduction to ingress. But why I have decided to do this interview questions is like, you know, we have been learning about Kubernetes from past 5 to 6 days. And we have covered a lot of topics like kubernetes architecture comparison with Docker deployment sports containers versus pod. So we have covered some very interesting topics and these are the topics that interviewers will ask you, you know during your course of interview. So I thought. To check how much concept have you grabbed or you know, how much have you understood from the past videos? So this is a really good exercise that we are going to do today. You can consider it as a mock interview. You can consider it as anything. But what you will do is try to answer the questions like whenever I show you the question number one, okay, firstly, I'll not show you the answer. I'll just show you the question. So try to see how many are you able to answer before I reveal the answer. Okay, so that you can give or you can assess your score by yourself. So if you want you can also comment your score below. So there is no competition kind of a thing here. But the only thing is you will understand how others are, you know taking the topics or are they practicing the topic so that they are remembering the concepts so that you can consider it as a feedback or retrospective for yourself. Okay, so without wasting any time. Let us quickly jump onto the video. I will have ten questions for you. I mean I have ten questions for you and let us see how many of you can answer how many number of questions. So firstly the question number one. Sorry for that lines. I can quickly remove them. No worries there. So just clear the drawings here. Perfect. So the question number one is what is the difference between Docker and Kubernetes? So today's questions will be scenario based questions. And so here what you need to do is try to answer this question by yourself. Okay, pause the video here and try to see if you can answer this question assume you are an interview you are in an interview and see if you can answer the difference between Docker and Kubernetes. Okay, so the answer for this would be I have also explained this in the previous video. I think the very first class when I have introduced you people to kubernetes in that class itself. I told you that Docker is a container platform and kubernetes is a container orchestration platform. I also have answers for you. Don't worry. So kubernetes is a container orchestration platform and what kubernetes Adds to the docker is like, you know containers are ephemeral in nature. That means to say a containers can go down containers, you know for multiple reasons. If a container goes down, then your application is already down. So your end user who is trying to access your application. He will see a traffic loss. So to avoid that you can move to a container orchestration platform solutions like kubernetes which will offer you auto healing auto scaling which will offer you like, you know, because kubernetes is a cluster itself like in production you can join or combine multiple virtual machines and create a kubernetes cluster so that even if one of your nodes, let's say Docker is a single node platform, right? You install Docker on a platform and you start your container if that node itself goes down for example, your laptop has gone down. for some reason so your application is not reachable. But what kubernetes offers is if one of the node goes down because it's a cluster it will immediately move the pod from that specific node to a different node. And finally it also has many enterprise capabilities like load balancing it can offer integration with custom resource definitions or you know, you can deploy any custom kubernetes clusters controllers that are developed by other people like for example Ingress controllers, right? So there are multiple Ingress controllers which can offer you advanced capabilities. So in nutshell, you can extend the capabilities of Kubernetes cluster using the custom resources as well. So this is the primary difference between Docker and kubernetes. Let's say you have not understood this one because you are watching this video even what even before watching the previous videos senile highly recommend you to watch our video. I think day 31 where I explained and compared the difference between Docker and kubernetes. So it was complete 30 minutes class where we took plenty enough time to understand the comparison between Docker and kubernetes. So now if you are able to answer this question assuming that you are an interview you are in an interview then yeah, you get one mark here. Okay. So question number 2, what are the main components of Kubernetes architecture? So this is one of the most asked interview questions. Okay, so you go to an. Any kubernetes interview the interviewer will definitely ask you this question because kubernetes has lot of components and when I explained you in day number 33, I guess the architecture of kubernetes. That is what I actually like, you know, I took 40 minutes of time to explain about the kubernetes architecture because it's a very important topic. Whenever you plan to learn about kubernetes, you should understand how a you know how multiple components of kubernetes are talking to each other and how the kubernetes is maintaining its robustness. So in a nutshell when somebody asks you this question, what you need to say is on a very high level. I can divide kubernetes into control plane and the data plane. On the control plane you have components like API server, which is, you know responsible for handling the API is talking to the end users and then you have the scheduler which is responsible for scheduling the resources on the kubernetes cluster. Then you have ETCD ETCD is a kubernetes object store where you know all the resources of the kubernetes are stored as objects in kubernetes. And then you have controller manager. So controller manager is basically for example, you have a replication replica set or application controller. you know controller manager is something that takes care of this default controllers in kubernetes and then you have cloud control manager. So cloud control manager is in the last class. I explained you. Let's say you want to implement the kubernetes on any cloud provider. For example, Amazon has implemented kubernetes as managed service on EKS platform. So whenever you install this kubernetes cluster what these cloud providers will do they will contribute to the cloud control manager and they will say like let's say you created a service of type load balancer. So what happens under the hood is the cloud control manager has the logic that is written by the people at AWS which can spin up a load balancer IP address for you. Okay. So when you create a load balancer service type you are getting a load balancer IP address on the AWS, but who is generating this right? So cloud control manager is doing this with the help of the contributions from the people of AWS tomorrow. If I write my own cloud, then what happens is I have to. Go ahead and contribute to cloud control manager so that kubernetes can like let's say somebody creates a service on my cloud then the cloud control manager can act and give you a load balancer IP address. So this is about the control plane or the master node components of kubernetes. And then you have the data plane where you have 3 primary components. One is cubelet one is cube proxy and then the final one is container runtime. So people also say there is one more component called cube DNA DNS, but you can restrict yourself to here where you can talk about cubelet cube proxy and container runtime. So cubelet you all know it is responsible for managing the pods. Let's say if pod is running in a healthy state or not. A part has to be restarted if the part has gone down then cubelet takes care of starting the part. So cubelet is a component that is responsible for managing the parts on the nodes. Then you have cube proxy cube proxy is a networking component of kubernetes which typically takes care of updating the IP tables. For example, you create a service of type node port. So what? Under the hood happens is the kube proxy is the one that understands that. Okay, there is a service that is created of type node port. So I have to go ahead and update the IP tables in such a way that somebody access the node IP address colon a specific port the request has to be sent to the pod. Okay, so kube proxy is the one that takes care of the networking. Finally, you have container runtime. What is container runtime? So container runtime is nothing but for a container to run you need a runtime. For example, if you have a Java application and for Java application to run you have a Java runtime. Similarly for containers to run you have container runtime and Kubernetes is not opinionated at about this one. Like you can use Docker shim. You can use container D. You can use Creo previously Kubernetes was opinionated because it only used to support Docker shim out of the box. Okay, but now you know out of the box nothing is supported. You have to install the container runtime on each and every node. Okay, So here interviewer might ask you one question. I've seen sometimes like when you say Kubernetes is not using Docker shim out of the box or Kubernetes is not using Docker as runtime out of the box. Does that mean Kubernetes is not supporting Docker? No, it supports Docker. It supports Docker shim, but nothing is available out of the box. Let's say previously when you install a Kubernetes cluster on each worker node, you used to get Docker shim runtime out of the box. But now it's up to you like you can install Docker Sim. You can install container D. You can install Creo any container runtime that implements the kubernetes container runtime interface. Okay, look, let's not go into the details of it. But if you want to understand the details, you can watch my kubernetes architecture video that should be day 32 or 33. Then what are the main differences between Docker Swam and kubernetes? So docker-swam and kubernetes. What is the difference why we have to use kubernetes when we have to use docker-swam. So basically if you look at the popularity kubernetes is quite popular even when you compare against any container orchestration environments, whether it can be Cloud Foundry. It can be Miso as marathon docker-swam. So Kubernetes is a quite popular choice. And if you talk about Docker Swam, Docker Swam is a Docker based solution, right? So the major difference is Kubernetes is suited for the enterprise like, you know large organizations or even mid-scale organizations whereas Docker Swam is is very easy to install it is very easy to use but it is only suitable for the small scale or you know very simple applications the reason for that is you know when you are going for scaling kubernetes has multiple options and when you are going for you know advanced networking capabilities kubernetes can do advanced networking capabilities very easily like you can use flannel Calico or you know, SDN OVN. So all of these things with kubernetes very easily and with Docker from the support is very limited and the other important thing is that you have a lot of third-party support for kubernetes. Like for example, the cncf community it has been very active and because kubernetes support something well as custom resource definitions. So anybody who can write a kubernetes controller if they feel that kubernetes is not supporting something they can extend the capabilities of kubernetes right because it's all about installing and deploying a controller in kubernetes and you can extend the capabilities to whatever extent that you want. So this is a comparison on a very high level. So if you are looking for a mid-scale or large-scale solution then go for kubernetes, but if you don't bother about the scale then you know, you can choose Docker Swarm because Docker Swarm is also very easy and very simple to install and use. But you know, if you look at the market today Kubernetes has large openings and if you even take ten JD's out of ten JD's ten JD's in DevOps will have Kubernetes. So why should you go for Docker Swam? If you are learning about Kubernetes or if you're learning about container orchestration environments. what is the difference between Docker container and a kubernetes pod? So again, I took almost 30 minutes to explain this difference in one of the videos. So if you are Trying to answer this question. You should definitely answer and you know, let us see how many people will get this answers correct. So sometimes what happens is you people can answer the questions, but you people will not be able to phrase the answers. Okay, so whenever the interviewer is asking so if you take a lot of time thinking about the answer then interviewer might feel that okay, so probably he does not know the answer or he's searching for the answer somewhere. because these days interview interviews are also not face to face, right? interior might feel that you don't know the answer. So these are some of the standard questions that you can expect in any interview. So try to be ready with the answers for this questions. Okay. So what is the difference between Docker container and a kubernetes port? So as I explained a kubernetes pod is nothing but a runtime specification or you know, what you do is in a yaml file kubernetes resources are basically written in yaml files. Okay, so in a yaml file you can put together all of the things that are required for your container to run so that itself is a pod but the only difference is We in a pod like pod is the lowest level deployment in kubernetes in a pod. You can create one single container or multiple containers. So if you have multiple containers, then both of them can talk within the pod using the same network. Okay, and they can also use the same storage or the same resources inside the port. So that's the only difference between a pod and a container. So you can simply say pod is nothing but a runtime specification of a container. What is a namespace in Kubernetes? So again, many people were asking this question in the comment section explain about the namespace namespace is a very simple concept. Okay. So namespace is nothing but a Kubernetes cluster is used by multiple people in your organization, right? So there are multiple projects and multiple projects for each project. You cannot create a Kubernetes cluster in production because end of the day, let's say you have 20 projects which are working on 20 microservices. All of these 20 microservices together might, you know, create your end application. If you take about amazon.com for Amazon, there can be 20 different teams working on 20 different microservices. But end of the day for amazon.com to function what is required all these 20 microservices should talk to each other and should form a single application. Okay, it will be bundled probably as different applications, but all of them are deployed in one single kubernetes cluster end of the day. A Kubernetes cluster. I mean in a Kubernetes cluster namespace is nothing but a logical isolation of resources networks are back and everything that you can do. For example, there are 2 projects and 2 projects you want to deploy on a Kubernetes cluster. So you will say for project a you will create a namespace called namespace a for project B. You will create namespace called namespace B and within project a there can be ten developers. They can work on namespace a and the other ten developers in project B. They can work in namespace B. So what happens is you have provided them the same Kubernetes cluster, but you have created 2 different namespaces for them. So in that way they have a logical separation physically. They are in the same Kubernetes cluster, but logically they are separated with concepts like our back. What is our back authentication? Then they have different network policies. They have, you know, isolation of resources like in namespace a let's say there is a deployment. In namespace be there is another deployment. Okay, so here there is application a and here there is application B. So developers of namespace a you can restrict from accessing the applications resources in the namespace B. So this is how your namespace isolation works. Okay, so to separate the isolation or you know to create the isolation to form this concept what you can do is you can make use of the our backs. Okay our back is nothing but role-based access control. So we will talk about the our back for people who don't know about our back. Don't worry about it. But for now if somebody is asking you what is the namespace you can simply tell a Kubernetes namespace is a logical isolation of resources so that multiple project teams in a company can work on the same Kubernetes cluster, but each of them will have a dedicated namespace so that nobody will interrupt the work of the other people or other projects. What is the role of cube proxy? So this is question number 6 till question number 5. Let us see how many people were able to answer all the 5 questions still question number 5 because more 4 questions. I think we covered already in our previous classes. Let's see now question number 6. What is the role of Q proxy? So again this I explained in one of the previous classes. So Q proxy I think I explained even during the question number 2 where we discussed about the architecture of Kubernetes, but if somebody asks you dedicatedly like please elaborate more on the Q proxy. So I've written some description here. You can write down this description somewhere or you know, you can as it easily, you know, you can copy paste the description when somebody is asking you. Cube proxy basically is about configuring the network rules. Okay on each of the node that means to say like the fundamental example that I gave you if a user creates a service of node port mode. Okay. So that means to say your pod can be accessed on that specific node IP call in the port that you configured in your service dot yaml file, right? But who is doing these things under the hood, right? So who is saying that when somebody sends a request on the node IP followed by the port number the request has to be routed to the pod. Okay, somebody has to say this configuration, right? So Q proxy is the one what it does is on every Linux machine. There is a concept called IP tables. Okay, so Q proxy. I mean you can configure Q proxy in different modes, but by default one is Q proxy updates the IP tables. So whenever somebody access the application using let's say your service is on node port mode. So if they access the URL or if they hit the URL node port colon port port number The cube proxy because it has configured the IP tables the request is sent from that specific node port colon. Sorry node IP colon port to the pod. Okay. So this entire routing is done using the kernel and the IP tables. So you can also use IP VS and other things but by default mode is IP tables in kubernetes. Okay, so this is about Q proxy and I've also provided the you know description here so that if you want you can copy this description and you can say say it as it is. Okay, when you want to convey it to your interviewers. Then what is the different type? Sorry, what are the different types of services within kubernetes? So Day number 36 sorry 35 when we talked about services, I explained 3 different services in kubernetes. So this is the question again where if somebody asks you what are the different types of services within kubernetes. So fundamentally I explained you services as 3 major responsibilities, right? One is load balancing one is, you know, the service Discovery and finally to expose your applications to the external world. These are the 3 major responsibilities of a service in kubernetes. So discover service Discovery load balancing and exposing the applications. So service Discovery and load balancing. I already explained now this question is about how to. Expose this application outside the kubernetes cluster or you know, what is the networking that you have configured or what are the different types of services that are available in kubernetes service modes that are available in kubernetes. So the answer to the question is you can create 3 different of types of services in kubernetes. One is you can configure the service mode as cluster ip mode. second is you can configure the service mode as node port mode and the third is you can configure the service mode as load balancer mode. So this is a straightforward answer, but your interviewer will definitely you know ask you to elaborate more. Can you elaborate the difference between cluster mode node port mode and the load balancer mode? In the last class I explained difference between each of them in tomorrow's class. You will see the practicals as well. Again, if you have to explain you the cluster IP mode what happens if you create a service as a cluster IP mode, so your pods or you know, your service will basically get a cluster IP. So if you try to access your service, so you will be only able to access the service using the cluster IP, which is only available or accessible within the Kubernetes clusters. Okay, whereas if you try to create the service as type node port mode, then your service can be accessed on the node IP column the port number that you define in your service dot yaml file. So what happens with that anybody in your organization who has the access to your node IP address. For example, you have created a Kubernetes cluster. on your AWS platform. Okay. So what happens is you have configured your worker nodes as easy to instances. So now anybody who can basically reach that easy to instance. So you if you can just ping the IP address of the easy to instance and that means to say that your node is accessible to that specific users. So whoever can access the nodes whoever can access the worker nodes or whoever can access the IP address of your kubernetes cluster then they can Basically access your applications if they are deployed in the node port mode, but for the end users who are sitting outside your organization, okay, so your end user is somewhere in India and your applications or your Kubernetes cluster is somewhere in the US. So in such cases if they don't have access to your network, and if they are outside your organization, then you have to expose your applications as load balancer mode. Okay. So what happens if you do that you are cloud control manager component of kubernetes basically it will create a public IP address for you or it will create a load balancer IP address for you and using which you can anybody in the world can access that applications. Okay, so this can also be done using ingress, but the question is only related to services. So let us restrict to service only. So again, the question is same here. What is the difference between node port and load balancer type service because this is a very frequently asked question. I thought I'll also put this question here. So the description is same the one that I just explained so you can pause the video here and you can read the description. Question number one. What is the role of cubelet? Okay, so here. when I explained you about the architecture of kubernetes. So I told you that cubelet is a very important component right because cubelet is very I mean cubelet is the one that is responsible for managing your pod life cycle on the worker nodes. So whenever you install or whenever you schedule a pod on the worker node using the cube scheduler, so the pod can go down for some reason or you know a pod can something can happen to your port. So there has to be someone Who has to inform the cube API server that okay. The part has gone down now. You have to send the information to the replica set or the deployment and it has to scale up the part. Okay, so if your part count has to be one so. if for some reason the part has gone down and the replica has become 0. So your replica set controller has to know that okay, the part has gone down. So I have to ensure that the part comes up and have to scale up the part. So this information is actually continuously monitored by the cubelet. So cubelet always watches that part if it goes down, then it sends the notification to the API server and then API server note notifies the replica set controller and then you know the replica set controller again spins up or you know, it increases the scale to the required amount. So this is the life cycle. So on a high level what pod is doing so pod is the one that is responsible for managing the sorry cubelet is the one that is responsible for managing the pods on the worker nodes. So I have provided the description as well so that you can explain the answer to to your interviewer during the interviews. Question number ten and this is a very important question. What are your day-to-day activities on kubernetes? So many people get confused here and I see also many people asking that Abhishek. I'm getting the theory knowledge. I'm able to practice using your videos. We were able to you know, get some understanding of kubernetes and the devops itself. But when somebody asks us the question, what are the day-to-day activities as a devops engineer or what are the day-to-day activities? on kubernetes we are not able to answer so don't worry about it. Actually, you know, it's a very easy question or it's a very simple question to answer and if you are starting with a you know, good answer like this will be our first question interviewer can ask you what are your day-to-day activities on devops or what are the day-to-day activities on kubernetes. So because this is your first question or most probably in first one or 2 questions. If you answer this question in a very good way, then it boosts your confidence and this question is a very simple one. You don't have to complicate the question or complicate your answer simply say them that you know. As part of the DevOps engineer role, we manage Kubernetes clusters for our organization and we also ensure that you know the applications are deployed onto the Kubernetes cluster and there are no issues with the application. So we have set up monitoring on our Kubernetes cluster. We ensure that whenever there are bugs on the Kubernetes cluster, for example, the developers are not able to troubleshoot some issue with respect to pods. Developers are not able to troubleshoot with respect to services. They are not able to route the traffic inside the Kubernetes cluster. So in such cases as subject matter expertise on the Kubernetes clusters, we come into picture and we solve their problems. But apart from that, we also do a lot of maintenance activities. For example, we have Kubernetes clusters with. 3 master nodes and ten worker nodes. So we have to do some continuous maintenance activities on this worker nodes probably, you know upgrading the versions of this worker nodes or installing some default mandatory packages ensuring that these worker nodes are not security exposed to security vulnerabilities. So all of these things are our day-to-day activities on kubernetes. Apart from that we also serve as subject matter expertise on kubernetes. So if anyone in the organization has any issues with kubernetes, they created Jira items for us or you know, they create tickets for us and we will help them in solving or making them understand the concept of kubernetes. So this is how you can explain. So it is a very simple answer. It's a very straightforward answer. You don't have to you know, get scared about this question. So these are the ten questions that I have for today and let us see how many people were able to get all the ten questions correct because you know most of the questions we have covered. I think 8 questions. We already covered in the previous videos. So let us see what is the scorecard and in future videos. We will learn about Ingress will learn about the practical implementation of Services will also talk about custom resource definitions. We will see a few things about helm. So it's going to be 4 or 5 videos more on kubernetes and after that will also do kubernetes interview questions part 2. So if you like the video click on the like button and if you feel that someone who is not following our 45 days of devops course, please share these videos with them so that they'll also get benefit out of the videos. Thank you so much. I'll see in the next video. Take care of one.