Hello everyone. My name is Abhishek and welcome back to my channel. So today we are at day 35 of our complete DevOps course and in this class we will try to learn about Kubernetes services. So service is very critical component of kubernetes. So in like like I told you in production scenarios, we don't deploy a pod but we usually deploy a deployment, right? So this is what we learned in the last class. So this is our learning from the last class. Similarly, once you deploy a deployment for each deployment most of the times you will create a service in the world of kubernetes. So why will we create this service and what is the importance of service? Let's try to understand in today's class. Okay, so before we learn everything anything what we usually do is we'll try to learn the why aspect of it, right? Why do we need a service in kubernetes and what happens if there is no service in kubernetes? Okay, so let's talk about the scenarios of no service. Okay. So now everything that I'm going to talk about is assuming that what if there is no concept of services in kubernetes. Okay. So what will happen? So what will happen usually like our previous classes what a developer or DevOps engineer would do he will deploy his pod as a deployment in kubernetes right and what that pod will do what the deployment would do it would create a replica set and what replica set would do it would create a pod. If the pod count is one it would create a single pod or if the replicas are multiple then it would create multiple replicas. Let's say we have the requirement of creating 3 replicas. Okay, so assume this is replica one replica two and a replica 3. Why do we need multiple replicas of a pod for a general understanding? Let's say there is one user then in such cases you don't need it. But let's say there are ten concurrent users concurrent is people trying to use same time. Like for example, you and me might use WhatsApp at the same time. So like similarly there there can be some thousands of users who are trying to access WhatsApp. at the same point of time. So if every request is going to only one particular pod then this pod will go down because it is getting too much of load. So that's why what you usually do is you create multiple replicas and the number of count of replicas depend upon the number of users trying to access your applications and also number of connections one particular pod can take. Okay, so if somebody asks you What is the ideal pod size or what is the ideal pod count? What will you say is it depends upon the number of concurrent users and number of users or the number of requests one replica of your pod can I mean one replica of your application can handle so if one replica of your application can handle ten requests at one time and if you have hundred requests that are coming in then you have to create ten parts. Okay, so you have to take this decision as a DevOps engineer as developers. You have to sit together and you have to take this decision. Okay. No, if we don't deviate, let's say there are 3 parts. Okay. And now for this 3 parts, the problem is that let's say one of these part has gone down for some reason. Okay, there is some network issue or in the world of Kubernetes in the world of containers a part going down or a container going down is very common. But what is the advantage of Kubernetes is because of its auto healing capability. Okay. So why we move towards Kubernetes is because Kubernetes has this auto healing capability containers are ephemeral. So if the containers die, they do not come up. Similarly, if a pod goes down, it will not come up automatically unless you have the auto healing behavior that is implemented by the deployment in Kubernetes or replica set controller in Kubernetes, right? Sorry. So now let's say you have the auto healing in place. So what happens as soon as this pod has gone down what will this replica set say don't worry. I'm here. Let me create one more copy and this copy will be created even before the actual one is deleted or parallely. It happens. Okay, so I have this one back but the problem is that when this one comes up, let's say previously the IP addresses were 172 dot 16 dot 3 dot 4 3dot five and three dot 6. I mean 102 3 dot 4 dot 5 something like that and next time when it came up the IP address will change previously if it is 170 dot 16 dot 3 dot 4 when it comes up this time it might be 1 70dot 16 dot 3 dot 8. So what happened is okay the application came up but the IP address of the application has changed and now we are talking about the scenario where there is no services concept in Kubernetes. So what will happen is your application IP addresses you have to share with your test team. You have to share with your. Other project who is using this applications are thought as third-party applications or something. What they usually do is they'll try to access this application. Let's say there are 3 teams who are trying to access this application or 3 people who are trying to access this application. What you said for user number one, this is the IP address user number 2. This is the IP address user number 3. This is the IP address. So as a DevOps engineer you thought I created a deployment which created a replica set which created 3 replicas of ports and there are 3 users. So parallelly also if they try to use my applications are accessible because I created 3 replicas of the ports and for one person. I said once wanted to 163 dot 4 for one person or other team. You said once wanted to 163 dot five and for the others you said once wanted to 16 3dot 6. So you are in an assumption that everything is right, but now what has happened even though you have the auto healing capability of kubernetes because the IP address has changed. So this is part one part two and part 3. But the IP address is new 12216 dot 3 dot 8. So this user one or the project one, let's say there are ten people in project one who are trying to test this application. What they said is your application is not reachable or your application is not working. But as a DevOps engineer, what are you arguing? No, no, my application is there. I can see my application. You are doing something wrong. End of the day you realized that after debugging he is trying to send request to 172 dot 16 dot 3 dot 4, but the IP address of your application is 1 72163dot 8. neither he is wrong nor he nor you are wrong because you have implemented auto healing and he said that I have used the same IP address that you that you gave. So this is the problem and even if you look at the real world, okay, so the real world will never work like this. Let's say all of us use google.com on a day-to-day basis. Okay, will Google ever tell you that try to access my application on an IP address called hundred dot 64 dot 2 dot seven and for let's say there is another user Google will say okay access me on 172 dot 16 dot 3 dot 9. So let's say Google has hundred replicas now Google will never tell you that one million user access on this port this particular IP address another million people access on this specific IP address that doesn't work like that. So what is the concept here? The concept is Google does a load balancing. Okay, and even I told you when I introduced you all to kubernetes so that there is a concept called load balancing in kubernetes. Okay, and I'll teach you later. So what you will tell this user project one is okay. Do not access using this IP addresses. What you will do is I will create like, you know, you created a deployment for this you will tell them that on top of this I will create something called as a service. The shortcut for service is svc. Okay, so I will create something called a service and what you do is instead of accessing this specific things. Okay directly try to access the service. Okay. So what now the user project one team does is instead of accessing the 172 dot 16 dot 3 dot 4. Let's say there are 3 replicas. Let's write all the IP addresses 172 dot 16 dot 3 dot 5. and 172 dot 16 dot 3 dot 6. Let's say these are the 3 IP addresses that you got from Kubernetes clusters. And then there are 3 projects one is user project one then user project to then user project 3. Previously you were giving them this IP addresses and you are asking them to access the application using the IP addresses. But what was going wrong when the pod was going down you have the auto healing behavior. But the problem is that the auto healing behavior when it spins up a new pod the IP address was changed from 17 to 16 3dot 4 to 3 dot 8. This can happen to this specific pod as well and this can happen to this specific pod as well. So what you will do is instead of this behavior instead of giving them each and every IP addresses. you can simply change this behavior by creating a service on top of the deployment. So if you say that this is a deployment that has created 3 pods using a replica set on top of this you will create something called as a service. Okay. And what this service does is it acts as a load balancer. How does it acts as a load balancer it uses a component in kubernetes that is called as Q proxy. Now, let's quickly not go into it because you will get confused for now. Let's assume that service is doing it ignore about Q proxy for now. Okay. So what service is offering is load balancing and you will tell this 3 user projects that instead of accessing the IP address. and this IP address can change very frequently. So what you will do is access me using the service name. So what these people will do or what this development teams will do instead of accessing the payments applications. On this specific IP addresses, they will say payment dot default dot SVC. Okay. So let's say this is the name of the service that kubernetes provided as soon as you create a service what kubernetes does is if this is your name of the service. This is the namespace and this is dot SVC. So kubernetes will give you something like this and you can tell them that okay, you can access my applications on this specific. IP address that is the service IP address or the load balancing IP address. So these people will try to access these applications on the same IP address. Okay, so everybody will use the same IP address underlying what this load balancer what this service using Q proxy will do is it will forward the request. Let's say ten requests are coming from here ten requests are coming from here ten requests are coming from where it will just say, okay sent and request here sent and request here and sent and request here. So this is one problem without service you would have faced. Okay. So if there were no services concept in kubernetes, you would fail terribly even implementing the auto healing capability. Even you have deployments and pods your applications will not work for certain people when the application goes down it comes up with a new IP address. So there is a problem and who is solving this problem. The problem is solved by service. So what is 1 point that we learned about the advantage of service that is load balancing. Now you should immediately get a question from the previous explanation that I just you know that I just showed you you should get a question that okay Abhishek. Let's go back to the diagram once I got it out. So what you should ask is okay. Let's say that you give this IP address. I mean instead of IP address you give this URL to them. So, you know service should also face the same problem, right? Because if user one project was not able to reach this specific part because the IP address URL has changed right from 3 dot for it has changed to 3 dot 8. now a service what is it actually doing it is just taking the request from this user and it is forwarding the request but even the service should face the same problem because the IP address has changed the service should be sending the request to one hundred to 163 dot 4 but the new IP address is one hundred to 16 3dot 8 Right. So you must ask me a question that okay Abhishek even the ten requests that service has sent to 17 to 2 163dot 4 would fail and again the problem is same user project one who is trying to access this pod using the service would fail terribly right because there is no traffic. So this is another problem that service solve that is called as discovery. Okay. So what is it called the second advantage that you get using service is service discovery. So what service says is okay. I understood the problem that if I am a if I am keeping a track of a deployment, okay, let's say this is service service is keeping a track of deployment and which is creating 3 ports for example. And if one of these IP address is changed, let's say this IP address has changed. If service also follows the same problem of keeping a track of IP address, The problem is not solved at all. So what service said is okay. I will not bother about IP address at all. Okay. I will come up with a new process which is called as labels and selectors. Okay. So how service does a service discovery unlike the previous example that I showed you unlike manually keeping track of IP addresses which can change any number of times. Okay, and even if there are 2 to 3 ports, let's say service can keep track of IP addresses. What if there are thousand ports this can happen like companies like Google they might have a thousand ports. Okay. I'm just giving an example or they can have some 50 to 60 ports. So if service manually keeps track of all the IP addresses then this problem will arrive. So that's why what service said is I'll introduce a new mechanism called labels and selectors. Okay, and what this labels and selectors will do is okay for every part that is getting created DevOps engineers or developers what they will do is they will apply a label. Okay, so this label will be common for all the ports. Let's say this is payments, right? So you can create a label for each of these ports called payment. Now what services is I'll not bother about IP address. I will only watch for the parts with this specific label called payment. Okay, so this can go down a hundred times or this can go down thousand times. I don't bother about it because I am only watching about label. So next time if this goes down and this can come up with a new way new IP address, but the label will remain the same. Why will label remain the same because the replica set controller what it will do is it will deploy a new pod with the same YAML that it got right that is what a healing. So if a service is keeping track of your pods using labels instead of IP address and the label is always the same the problem is solved. So this is the service discovery mechanism of Kubernetes service. So how Kubernetes service will do a service mechanism using labels and selectors. Okay, so this is why Kubernetes service concept is advanced. Okay, why Kubernetes service has a very good service discovery mechanism is because of the concept that it uses which is called as labels and selectors, right? I hope you got this answer. Let's go back to the previous slide to make it even clear. So what service will do is okay. I will draw a new diagram probably. So the end mechanism would be you create a deployment. Okay, so this is your deployment. And how do you create a deployment? Basically, you create a YAML manifest, right? So let's say you created a YAML manifest. What as a DevOps engineer you will do is whenever you create this deployment, okay, so you provide all the specification that is required and all of the things along with that inside your metadata. Okay metadata of your deployment. You create something called as a label. Label is just a tag. You can just say app payment, for example. So now what this deployment will do it will create a replica set. And what this replica set will do. Let's say there are 2 replicas. It will create pod one and this is part two and for both the pods. It will have a label like a pod with if you just do kubectl edit pod. You can see the portrait or you can do kubectl describe pod and you can you can see the part. So what you will see is for this part. There is a label called app. Similarly, there is also a label here called app payment. Perfect. So let's say this service has gone down. I might be repeating this multiple times, but this is very important. Let's say this part has gone down. So the IP address will change but what will replica set say? Okay. I have the yaml manifest and according to the yaml manifest the part has to be created with this specific label. So even if this is going down a hundred times hundred times it will come up with the same labels and selector now what? We will do from today's learning is we will create a service right because service offers a load balancing that is required along with that. What service is also doing is instead of Looking at looking or keeping track of IP addresses. It will keep track of this label. So whenever a new part is created, let's say you increase the replica from 2 to 3 also. So again a new part will be created with label app payment. So service will understand. Oh, okay. There is a new part. So I have to keep track of this as well. So this is how service maintains a service discovery process. So this is very important if interviewers are asking you, you should be able to answer this. Okay. So this is the concept of labels and selectors. Perfect. first one we learned is load balancing. second one we learned is about service discovery. Let's learn about the third thing. So the third thing and the other important thing what a service can do is any guesses what a service can do apart from this is it can also expose to external world. Now what is this another thing that I am going to talk about don't worry. We will do practicals and we will do demos of each and everything. So even if in case in today's theory you are understanding few things and you are waiting for the demo don't worry in tomorrow's class. We will do a detailed demo of service. Okay, so I just don't want to hurry up in the theory and move on to the demo part. because practicals are as equal as your theory. So if you understand theory very well, then practicals you will able to understand very easy. So we talked about 2 things if we see here I explained already 2 things and I hope these 2 things are clear load balancing and service discovery. Now, the third thing is exposing your application to the world. What is this? So yesterday's class what we have seen is whenever we are creating a deployment, right? the part that got created what has happened to this part this part came up with a IP address 17 to 2 163dot 4. Okay, whether you are accessing this, you know directly by SSH thing into the mini cube or you have created a your Kubernetes cluster and you have SSH to the master or any worker node. What is actually happening is whoever has access to this Kubernetes cluster. Right. It can be minicube. It can be cops. It can be EKS anything. So whoever has access to this they can log into the kubernetes cluster and they can hit the application. But this is not a real-world scenario, right? So you cannot ask your customer that okay SSH to my machine log into kubernetes and access my application on this IP address will Google ever tell you this complicated process? So google.com you are anywhere in the world. You don't require SSH or you don't require anything you directly access your application on https.google.com right? So this is what you try to do. So this is something that kubernetes cannot offer you directly by using deployments. So deployments can create a pod and a user can SSH onto your Kubernetes cluster then SSH into probably master node worker node and they can you know access the application but for end user somewhere your user might be sitting in you know somewhere in Italy or he might be sitting somewhere in Austria. Now you cannot tell him that okay, you cannot have access to my application directly because you are not in my network. Firstly, you have to come to my network use VPN. You cannot say all of these things, right? So what service will do additionally is a service can expose your application. Okay, so by expose your application is service can allow your application to access. outside the Kubernetes cluster right outside the cage cluster. So how service will do it is basically whenever you are taking a Kubernetes service you are provided with 3 options. Okay, we will see that in life. Don't worry like I'm telling you whenever you are creating a Kubernetes service resource in the yaml manifest. What you can say is you can create this service of 3 types type one Cluster IP Type to you can create it as a node port mode. Type 3, you can create it as a load balancer. There are other types as well headless service and all I'm not talking about all of those things. Okay, so these are the default types. So cluster IP node port and load balancing. So what happens is if you create this service using a cluster IP mode any service, so this will be a by default behavior. So your application will still be only accessed inside the Kubernetes cluster. Nothing will change for you only if you create a service with this cluster IP mode. What happens is you will get the 2 benefits that we talked till now that is discovery and load balancing. Okay, what are you getting discovery and load balancing? But if you create service of type node port mode, then what service will do is it will allow your application to be accessed inside. Your organization. Okay, so anybody within your organization or anybody within your network who is not, you know, technically they might not have access to the Kubernetes cluster, but they have access to your worker node IP addresses. Okay, so if I have to just put it in a very simple way, whoever has access to your nodes node IP addresses only they can access the application if you create your service as type node port mode. Okay, and finally load balancer type. So what is load balancer type? So load balancer type is basically your service will expose your application to external world. Let's say you have deployed these, you know everything on a EKS kubernetes cluster. So if you are creating a service of load balancer type, then you will get a elastic load balancer IP address for your specific service and whoever is trying to access, you know, they can use this elastic any anywhere in the world because this is a public IP address, right? So they can access using the public IP address. Got it. So like I was telling you previously payments dot Default dot svc. So this is your you know, the service name or this is your this is where your service get resolved. But when you create a service as you know external world or load balancer service type of mode load balancer. Then if it is on any cloud provider then depending upon the cloud provider implementation this load balancer will only work on cloud providers. Okay, so if you're trying to do it on your mini cube or if you're trying to do it by default, it will not work. Okay, so there is a project which is trying to get this work on the mini cube as well. But for now, let's not go into the details if you try to do by default on mini cube or any local Kubernetes clusters. the service type load balancer will not work. So what is the solution there that we will learn in future classes there where we will learn about ingresses. Okay, but. If you create load balancer service type then that means to say on your cloud on your cloud provider. There will be a elastic load balancer IP address that will be created which is the public IP address using which you can access your application. Okay, if you create it as a node port mode, then you can access within your whoever has access to your AWS or whoever has access to your node inside the AWS. They can access your application cluster IP. Nobody can access who are just has access to kubernetes can access this thing. Now I'll explain everything in one simple diagram so that you will understand it in a much clearer way. So let's say. This is your entire Kubernetes cluster. What you have done is you created a deployment. replica set pod all of these things is inside a node okay let me this is pod okay now let's assume all of this is inside a node this is worker node one for example This is your Kubernetes cluster, which has assumed 2 to 3 nodes. Okay. But for easy understanding, I did not draw all of them. Now there is a customer. Okay. So what you will do is on top of this, like I told you, you will create something called as a service. So service will watch for the part. Now let's try to understand the customer's flow or let's try to understand the user flow depending upon the type of service. If you create this service as a cluster IP service, This is case one you have created this as a cluster IP. So what will this service do is if you create this using a cluster IP mode, then this service will say, okay, don't worry about anything. The application should be accessed only for the people who has access to this kubernetes cluster. So there is a customer or there is a user who is trying to access this application. He is sitting out of outside your organization. Okay, so let's say this is public. And this is your organization. something like you are using your home Wi-Fi and he is using his home Wi-Fi very easy understanding. Okay, so this is public and this is your organization. So he tries to reach but you know, he cannot reach this specific thing. Let's say he has access to the organization as well. He cannot reach the application because the problem is the application is sitting somewhere here. And he do not have access to this specific thing, right? So that is not practically possible. Now, let's say you have created a load balancer type service. What will happen is the service that got created it will say the if you assume this cluster is on AWS, it will notify AWS that oh, I mean kubernetes API server will notify AWS that okay EKS. I have a service of type load balancer mode. So can you give me a elastic load balancer IP address? Okay, which means a public IP address. and which component of kubernetes is doing it there is a component in kubernetes that we learned that is called as cloud control manager right this is part of your kubernetes masternode what is this component kubernetes cloud control manager so the cloud control manager will generate a public IP address using the AWS implementation and it will return a public IP address and know what we what I mean what service will do is it will say whoever wants to access these ports. You can access using a public IP address. Okay. So this is the public IP address. So this public IP address by the name itself. It's public so that anyone who has access to Internet you just need to have access to Internet. So user who has access to Internet can access the application because the service type is load balancer. Finally, you have something called as node port mode. So when you create a service of node port mode, then whoever has access like this is the public right or this is the user now. He only has access to public internet or he only has access to resources in the internet. But what a service type node port will do is it will say that okay, what I will do is instead of allowing only people who has access to kubernetes cluster. What I'll do is I will say because the service is of type node port mode. I can allow access to people who has access to this worker node one or worker node 2 or worker node 3. can allow access to people who has access to this worker node one or worker node to or worker node 3. Okay, so whoever can access the worker node IP addresses like like let's say these worker nodes are easy to instances. Okay. So whoever has access to the easy to instance IP addresses they can access me. Okay. So the first case is if you create a load balancer type then anybody in the world can access it if you create a node port type mode then anybody who has access to worker nodes or the easy to instances traffic or the VPC traffic they can have access to the pods. or the applications and in the third case that is cluster IP mode then nobody has access to it. Even if you have access to the VPC even if you have access to the easy to instance only if you can log into this Kubernetes cluster and if you have access to the network inside the Kubernetes cluster that is you have access to the container network or you have access to flannel Calico, whatever you have configured only they can access. Okay. So these are the 3 things. This is how a Kubernetes service works. So what are the 3 advantages if we go back So the first advantage that kubernetes service offers you is load balancing second advantage that kubernetes service offers you is service discovery third advantage is exposing the applications to the world. So I explained each and everything using examples and I hope you understood it like understand right from here. If you have not understood the video go back to this specific slide where I have explained what happens if you don't have a service in kubernetes watch the video one more time. You have the auto healing capability that deployment is giving you why you need a kubernetes service. I clearly explained here that is the IP address will get changed whenever a container comes up if you know you have configured auto healing. So a new pod comes up, but the IP address has changed. So you need a discovery mechanism and you know to manage the traffic between the pods you need a load balancing mechanism. Similarly, if you want to make this applications available to internet available to specific people in your organization, like probably you want everybody in the world to access this application if it is a open source application or if it is application that you want everybody to access. Okay. So for example best example is Amazon.com. Okay. So here if we go back to this slide, when will you choose Cluster IP mode? When will you choose? a node port mode and when we will choose load balancer mode for example. Amazon.com. Let's say we are working for Amazon. Okay, and if as a DevOps engineer, if you have to understand services in a very simple words, if you are working for Amazon.com, what you will do is you will create a service of type load balancer. This just example guys. Okay, so that anybody in the world can access Amazon.com. Okay, there is one application. Let's say that is called Amazon.com. So if you create a service of type load balancer, then everybody in the world can access this if you create so Amazon.com is a load balancer. Don't get confused. I'm just giving it as an example. If you want people inside your organization or people who have access to your VPC your nodes, right only those people to access then you will create service of type node port mode. If you want only DevOps engineers or you know, if you want only people who have access to your kubernetes cluster network. Then you will create cluster IP mode. Take this as an assignment. Try to write few lines try to see you know, if you understood the concept will try to draw a diagram for this and you know, post it on your LinkedIn posted on your github. So, you know, this is how you can correct your understanding or you know, you can see if your understanding is right or wrong. I hope you enjoyed the video. If you like the video click on the like button. If you have any questions put that questions on the comment section. Also, if you have any feedback share that with me. Finally, don't forget to subscribe my channel Abhishek Viramalla and share this with your friends and colleagues. Thank you so much. I'll see in the next video. Take care everyone. Bye.