Hello and my name is Abhishek and welcome back to my channel. So today we are at day 37 of our complete DevOps course and in this class, we will deep dive into kubernetes services. That means we'll be doing practical session on kubernetes service where you will see the aspects that we were talking about like the load balancing service discovery as well as how to expose your applications to outside world in kubernetes. So everything will be practical. I'll recommend everybody to watch the video till the end because we are doing practical traffic viewing using Cube Shark. Cube Shark is a tool which will help you to understand how traffic is flowing within the kubernetes how each component of kubernetes is talking like, you know how one component is talking to the other component. So it will be a very interesting session and you will see all the capabilities using Cube Shark like the how service is doing the load balancing within multiple pods, how service is able to discover the pods and also we will see how to expose the applications to outside world as well as within the Kubernetes cluster and within your organization. Perfect. So without wasting any time I'll quickly jump onto the video but disclaimer and very important point is watch the video till the end because even if you know the concept of services, even if you understand Kubernetes using the Cube shark, I'm going to show you how the traffic is flowing. So it is very useful session. Okay, perfect. So let me stop this share and go on to the Kubernetes cluster. Where is it? Perfect. So here for the purpose of demo, I already have a Kubernetes cluster. Let me clear this thing. So this is a kubernetes cluster that I have it's a minikube kubernetes cluster. If you just see minikube status, you will see that the kubernetes cluster is already up and running for instance. If you don't know how to create a kubernetes cluster, you can watch my previous videos where I explained how to create a kubernetes cluster both using minikube and also if you want to create on AWS if you have some free coupons or the resources then you can use cops to create the kubernetes cluster which I explained in the last classes. Perfect. So I have the mini cube Kubernetes cluster running and let me clear up all the resources that I currently have. Okay. So if I just do Cube CTL get all so I was just using the default in space for my other activities. So let me just clear all of these things. I just have a deployment and a service. So Cube CTL delete deploy. Let me delete this deployment that I have and Then I will also delete the service that I have kubectl delete svc. This is the service that I have and you will not remove the default service that is kubernetes service itself. So now if I just do kubectl get all I should see just the kubernetes default service that is running perfect. So. I think we are good for the demo. So for the demo what I've done is, you know in the previous classes, we use the repository called Docker 0 to hero. So I'll use the same repository. You can either use that repository or you can use your own images if you have one. So this is the repository Docker 0 to hero. So you can also get that repository from my github. So you can simply go here github. I'm Viramala. Docker 0 to hero. So this is the repository guys where you have real-time practical Python as well as Golang images which are basically, you know front-end and back-end based applications. So either you can use these things or you can personally use your own ones. But if you want to use then you can go to this GitHub repository called. This is my username in GitHub and Docker 0 to hero is the link. I'll also put the link in the description. Okay, let me go back to the screen so here. Now, let's start from the scratch where I'll create a deployment first and you know deployment is something that creates your replica set which indeed creates a ports but these ports are only accessible within your kubernetes cluster. So we have seen that in the last classes because those ports come up with default cluster IP address and if you are using the cluster IP address, then the problem is that the cluster IP is only accessible within the kubernetes cluster. So firstly, let me you know, Go to that folder examples and inside examples. I have either you can go to python application or you can go to golang based application. So go to python based application in the demo. I'll use python and you know here I have the Docker file this file. Let me remove this so that I can do right from the scratch and you people can understand. So here I just have a Docker file and this is the code and service dot ml also we can delete. So you will not have these files in the repository. If you go to the repository, you will see DevOps folder, which is the application itself and you will have a Docker file and the requirements.txt. So now the thing that we will do is we will create a deployment here and we will deploy this application as a deployment onto the kubernetes cluster. So this is a Docker file guys. So it's a very simple Python Django based application and the application has an entry point and CMD. So you don't have to pass any arguments commands. It will self execute when you run the container. So for that firstly, let's build this Docker image. So let me call this as Docker build right? So I'm giving a tag called python sample application demo and V one right? This is the image name and this is the tag. So we will create the image so that we will do the things right from 0. So the image is created now. I have the image ready here. Now the thing is we have to start with the deployment because I want to deploy this onto the kubernetes cluster. So as I told you in the last classes, you don't have to remember any syntaxes just go here search for kubernetes deployment. So you will go to a page called deployments in kubernetes and here just take the example that is available. Okay. Just copy this example onto the terminal. Let me call this file as deployment dot yaml. Perfect. So let me paste it here. So this is the deployment we need to edit the fields. So as I told you in the previous classes, you don't have to remember anything. You just have to know which fields have to be modified, right? So I don't want 3 replicas. Let me just choose 2 replicas for the demo so that I can show you the load balancing as well with the service. So I'm just creating 2 replicas of my part. So name I'll just modify the name as let me call this as. sample python app. Okay, and we have to choose the labels guys. So labels is important because let's say someone wants to use this deployment or you know, you want a selector. So I explained the concept of labels and selectors. So this applies for every resource in kubernetes. So every time you create a resource in kubernetes whether it is deployment or whether it is any kind of resource. Try to put some labels on top of them. Okay. So here I will say label as just again, I'll use the same label called sample python app. Okay replicas as to and selector we can use the same thing. So this selector is required for the deployment to actually look into you know labels and selectors concept where this is the selector which will look for the labels called app sample python application. Okay, so that's why what I'll do is inside the this is the port template right? So inside the port template also you can choose the same label. Okay sample python application now who will be looking for this label service will also be looking for this label because service works on the concept of labels and selectors. So whenever I'm going to create service after this I'll show you when we create service. We have to remember that we have to copy this label as is and we have to use this inside the selector field of the service only then your service will be able to find out this part. For example, if I remove this and let's say it is conflicting information in service as well as in part then you know your service will not be able to find the part and you will see a traffic loss. So we can also try that as an example. No problem. Now here you can call it as a python app just a name of the container. It does not matter. But the main thing is you have to replace with the image that we have just created. Okay, so let me save this and what was the image that we created. So this is the image right? So let me open this one and put the image name here. Okay, so this is what I'm going to show you guys that you don't have to remember any syntax for the deployments or services. because the file will remain always the same and on which port is the application running my application is running on the eight thousand port. Okay. So how do you know this? It's very simple. You can open the Docker file and you know, you will know on which port your application is running. So either it will be part of the expose statement or you can also find that as part of the commander. Okay. So whenever you are running the application so as developers or DevOps engineers, you should know on which port your application is running. Got it. So now this is the deployment or DML have successfully updated the container port. I have updated the image then I have updated some labels and selectors. So this is it now you can go ahead and create the deployment Cube CTL apply minus F. deployment dot yaml. So if I create this deployment, so you will see that you know, it says that the deployment is created and you can also use the kubectl get deploy. What does kubectl get deploy do kubectl will talk to your kubernetes API server and it will get the information of deploy. Okay. So here you will see that kubectl get deploy returns saying that okay, I've created a deployment and there are 2 pods that you have requested and both of the pods are available. So if you don't believe Cubectl, you can just say cubes Cubectl get pods which will show you the 2 pods that are created as well. Okay, so this is how you can get the information of the parts that are running. But if you want to get the IP address of this parts as well, what you can do Cubectl get pods minus or wide which will give you the information of your IP address of the pods. Okay. if you are keen enough to I mean if you are keen to understand what exactly is happening when you run this Cubectl commands, you can simply add a verbose statement. Like, you know instead of just saying Cubectl get pods you can say Cubectl get pods minus V is equals to 7 for example. Okay, so it will give you the information. What is it saying? Firstly loaded the cube config file. Okay after that it is connecting to the API server. Okay. So here this is the API server and it is trying to use this API call with the kubernetes to get the list of ports. Then it says that the request headers are accepted and it got the response as 200. it has returned you the information of the ports as you increase the verbosity level. You will get more information about this kubernetes ports like you can do 9 which is the maximum verbosity level then you get more information about the API call like the JSON that it is passing and what is the response? What is the request? So this is only if you are curious to understand how kubectl is talking to the kubernetes API server and what is happening behind the scenes when you run the kubectl get pods command. Okay. So now this is not relevant to our class today. So you can just do kubectl get pods minus a wide now deployment has created 2 pods and we all know the practical use cases of deployments, right? So what it does it's a high level wrapper and you know, it rolls out a replica set and you know replica set is a controller which make sure that the state of the pods is matching according to the deployment or DML that we have created. So for example, if I delete one of these pods you already know that okay, let me delete this Cube CTL delete pod then replica set will create a new pod. We have already seen this in the last classes with practicals as well. So if I again do kubectl get pods you will see that the 2 pods are running and this time probably the IP address might change. Okay, so if I just say kubectl get pods minus o wide. See here the IP addresses were 0 dot 50 dot 6. Now the IP address has changed to 0 dot seven and zero dot 5. So this is the problem that we were discussing about kubernetes deployments, right? So if the IP address has changed now the user who was trying to access the application on 0 dot 6, they will say that oh I was using 0 dot six and I'm getting a traffic loss. But as DevOps engineer will say no, no, there are 2 pods expected expectation is 2 pods and 2 pods are running. So I am not responsible. So whose problem is this the problem is with respect to kubernetes because kubernetes whenever it has created a new replica. Okay. It has changed the IP address because kubernetes does a dynamic allocation of IP address. It's not a static allocation if it was a static allocation. So whenever a new pod comes up every time it comes up with the same IP address, but in case of dynamic allocation the IP address might change. So now this is the reason why you need a service discovery mechanism. Okay, so if kubernetes services was identifying the pods, okay using the IP address what happens then you know, it becomes wrong, right? So what I means to say is you will face a traffic loss because the IP address has changed. So that's why as I explained you in the last classes, we use a concept called labels and selectors. So using labels and selectors what you do is you identify like Kubernetes service identifies the ports using the labels and selector concept so that every time a new port comes up its label will remain the same right because the label is same label is just like a stamp or you can understand as a tag. So every time a port comes up it definitely comes up with the same tag. IP address might change but the tag or the stamp or the label is always the same. So service will say that oh, okay. So I notice that a new pod came up and let me check the label. Okay label is correct. This is what information that DevOps engineer has given me that this is my selector selector should match the label of the pod and a new pod is created. So this pod belongs to me so I can send the traffic to this new pod as well. So that is how it works and I explain this thing in the last class using theory and the diagrams as well. now we will go ahead and see this behavior. Okay, firstly what happens is if you want to stop here, let's say if you just want to use the deployments then what you can do is you can just say minikube SSH and use one of these IP address, and probably you can access them using curl command. You can just say curl HTTP followed by this specific IP address just use minus L because the application that I have written it requires a redirect. So you will notice okay colon eight thousand right because the application was running on the port 8000. So you will notice that there is a traffic here. So what what is happening here slash demo as well. Sorry guys. So the application which I have written is running on the context would call slash demo. So you have to use this specific thing Curl followed by the IP address call and put on which the application is running and the context root of the application. Okay, so don't worry why I am changing this information. I'm not changing anything. You can just go to this Python web application. It's a Django based application. If you have knowledge on Django, you can just go here and you can see the context root of the application. If you go to the urls.py you will see here actually. Yeah, if you go here to the urls.py you will see that the context root is slash demo. Okay, so that's why I'm accessing the application on slash demo. I'm not changing anything. Don't worry. So you just have to access it on 172 or 17 or 0 dot 5 followed by the port of the container followed by the contextual that is slash demo. Now you will see that there is a traffic that you are trying to access. What does it say learn DevOps with strong foundational knowledge and practical understand understanding. Please share the channel with your friends and colleagues. So this is a very simple static application that I have written. Now the problem you all know that okay, if you use the same IP address and try to access it, let's say use this IP address say use the same command. Okay, so curl minus L HTTP. Column double slash. colon eight thousand slash demo. You will see that there is no traffic. We were getting only you know, we were able to access the application and we were able to get the response only inside the kubernetes cluster. This is because a part by default will have. only the cluster IP addresses that is I mean a pod by default will just have the cluster network attached to it. if it is a cluster network, you have to access it using the cluster itself, right? You have to log into the cluster and access it but this is not expected. Your customers will be definitely if you have internal customers internal customers can be within your organization. But if you have external customers, they will be even outside your organization. So you have to to solve the 2 problems here, right? One is people within your organization. Okay for people within the organization. Like I told you you can use the kubernetes service concept. Let's say this is your kubernetes cluster. For example, Where is this? Okay, so I was trying to draw here, but I hope you understood that if you are trying to use people within your organization. Okay, let me Try to grab something here. Yeah, probably I can write here. So let's say. This is your kubernetes cluster. Okay, or let me take a external diagram itself. Draw auto draw. We can use this auto draw to explain. Okay, clear this thing. Start over right? So let's say this is your kubernetes cluster. Okay, and this is your organization. Okay. So this is your organization and this is your kubernetes cluster and this is your application so you can have people within your organization trying to access this application. or you can my you might also have people who are outside the organization itself, right? So if you are building applications for your organization, if they are internal applications, then what you need is you have to expose this application on the kubernetes worker node IP addresses. so that you know these people can directly access using the kubernetes worker node IP address. If you want to use I mean if you want this application to be used by external customers, they don't even have access to your organization. So you need to create a public IP address for this application so that you know everybody in the world can access your applications. So these 2 cases can be solved even in yesterday's interview question. I explained if you want to solve this problem one you have to use node port mode Right and for 2 you have to use load balancer mode. So let us see both of these cases. Okay, let us try to understand a node port mode and let us also try to understand the load balancer mode. Perfect. So if you want to learn these things in detail, you can watch my previous videos where I have explained all of these things in detail, but today's video will be going to be a practical video and I'm also going to show you the same things using virus arc. first of all, let us proceed with the creation of service. So service dot yaml. Let me create this file here. And again, I will not remember anything. I'll just go to the kubernetes website itself and say kubernetes. Service. Okay. So if I am doing a kubernetes service here, let me clear this diagram. Go to annotate and clear. So if you go to kubernetes service, so here you will notice that just copy this I mean go to this page and here you have multiple example of the services. So the default one like I told you it's just serves for the cluster IP address. I don't want it. So firstly, let us demonstrate the node port example. Okay, what happens in node port? your application will be exposed on the node IP address. Okay. So in my case the node IP address is the minikube node IP address because I'm using minikube So let me just copy this one right because this is the example for node port and paste it here. Let me delete this so that it will be clear. Okay. Perfect. Now, what are the things that have to change? Firstly, you can give any name to for your service. You can also keep it as is my service. Let me change this thing to python Django app service. You can give any random name. Okay, don't worry about it. Now, the most important thing is to. Keep this selector similar to the deployment or the ports that you have created not the deployment to the ports because service will be directly looking at the ports using the selectors. If there are hundred ports, then this selector will be looking at hundred ports that have this label. Okay, it doesn't matter tomorrow. If you have two hundred ports three hundred ports, what service says is I don't bother about the number. I'll be only looking at that has this label if any pod, let's say unexpectedly someone else has created a pod with this specific thing. Then your service will forward the traffic to that pod as well if it is in the same namespace. Okay, so that's how the service works. So service will only bother about the labels and selector. Okay. So what you need to do is you have to go back to your Kubernetes pod or the deployment or yaml file. inside the deployment inside the port template. Okay, make sure that you are copying it from here. Okay, sometimes for the deployments you might have different labels and selectors. Okay, so always pick from the template section inside the templates. You have this label pick from here. Go back to the service example. Oh, sorry. I did not save it my bad. No problem. I'll just go back to the page and save it one more time copy it one more time. So this is the service copied from here. Copy and then delete this comment delete this comment so that it is clear now copy this thing Python. always make sure that you copy the right thing because if you don't copy the right ones you will land into some problems with the labels and selectors and it will be difficult to debug. Okay, so that's why try to copy it as is. Now I have copied this one. Okay, so app sample python application. Perfect. I have copied now choose any node port that you want. I can keep as is as well. I can use 30007 port number and one important thing is to change the target port. What is target port target port is basically the port on which your application is running. So my application is running on port 8000. So I'll choose this as the target port. And do I need to change anything? I don't like I can change this one. Python Django sample app. It can be anything now. Let me just save this. Cube CTL apply minus F service dot yaml. Okay. So as soon as you apply this the service will be created again, if you want to debug or understand more then what you can do just say kubectl get svc minus V is equals to 9. You will get the entire information how the call is how the traffic is going within the cluster how the kubectl get is working and you will get the all the information but If you just ignore for the purpose of the demo, you can just say kubectl get svc and you will get the application that is running. This is the cluster IP don't get confused because you have created the service using the node port. You will see that there is a port mapping that is done. So. The cluster IP colon ET port is mapped with the node IP address. 30007. Okay. What does this mean? This means to say that either you can do mini cube SSH copy this IP address. Okay, and you know, you can also access your application using this cluster IP address of the service that is HTTP colon. this IP address colon at slash demo. Okay, even if you do this you will get the traffic minus L after pass. Okay, even using this you will get the traffic or what you can do is you can otherwise use the node code IP address. No, why this is not recommended because you can already do this using the pod IP addresses, right? So a service or any resource that you are creating in kubernetes whether you are creating in node port mode, whether you are creating in load balancer mode or anything cluster IP will definitely be there, right? So additionally you are creating node port additionally when you are creating service in node port mode, you will get a port mapping and that port mapping is nothing but what kubernetes service has done for you. It says that okay, if you don't want to access using the cluster IP address, you can use the node IP address and I have mapped the port that is on port at with 30007 port that you have provided in the service dot MN. So now I can simply say minikube IP to get the IP address of the minikube node. If it is a easy to instance, you can get the IP address of the easy to instance. You already know how to get the IP address of easy easy to instance. Right? So this is the IP address what I can simply do is I can say curl minus L. So for other applications you might not need this minus L but for my application because there is a redirect happening within the application. I require this and now HTTP colon. This is the node IP address. So this is the interesting thing guys. No, I'm going to show you how the application is accessed from the node IP address. Okay. So now I'm not logging into the kubernetes cluster. I can also access this using the browser. I'll show you that as well. Okay. So why I can access using the browser because it is a same laptop. If you access from your browser, you will not get the traffic if you want to access using from other people's browser, then you have to use the load balancer IP address because it becomes external right it becomes external traffic. But if you are accessing from your laptop the minikube IP address you can do that because you are already in the same laptop, you know the Right your laptop can connect to minikube because it is part of the what it is end of the day what minikube is doing. It is just installing a virtual machine on top of your laptop and you know, because both of them are in the same network you can access but outside people cannot access it because you have just exposed using the node port mode. So what I'll do is call an at Watch this carefully. I'm not using colon eight thousand because I am basically, you know, what service is doing is this is the node IP address and this is the port when you do it it maps to. Even if you don't use it, there is no problem. Sorry, you have to use 30007, right? You cannot use 80 because if you use 80 service, sorry, the node IP address would be looking for applications on 80 nothing will be running. So if you have if you do 30007, then this is how the service will route the traffic to the ports. Okay. So this is the node IP address. This is the node port followed by slash demo. Now you will see that the application is accessible. You can use the same IP address. Okay, just let me copy the same thing. and you can also access from your browser. This is from the browser, So this is the application that is running now. If you take the same URL you are watching this video, right? If you take the same URL and if you try to access this from outside, it will not work. Okay, why will it why will it not work? Because what is the reason? you have not exposed your application to outside world. So this is how you expose your applications to other people in your organization or somebody who has access to your node IP addresses or someone who has access to your easy to instances or your virtual machines how to access the application to outside world. Okay, so to do that you will make a very simple change just go to your service called Cube CTL edit service. Okay, and what was the name of the service? Sorry, I don't remember. So let me do kubectl get service and let me edit this service. Okay kubectl edit svc and once you edit you will see the type as node port mode, right? So in one of the places we have selected the type as node port just simply make the modification and change it to load balancer. this will not work here because we are using minikube. Okay, if just the same thing just modify to type load balancer and it will work for you if you are on your easy to instance or if you are on any cloud provider because load balancer type is only you know supported on the cloud providers right and who does that the thing is done by your. Sorry cloud control manager, right? So What you need to do is just go back here Cubectl edit svc and search for node port and just modify the thing to your load balancer. What is the mode that you will change load balancer. I hope the syntax is right. Perfect. So now if you do Cubectl get svc The IP address will not be allocated the external IP will remain pending here because this is mini cube. If it was AWS or if it was Azure or if it was GCP, you will get the IP address here and who is generating that IP address for you the cloud control manager of Kubernetes. Why cloud control manager is generating because the people of AWS Azure and GCP have told the cloud control manager. They have contributed to the cloud control manager saying that if you find a service of type load balancer, then use the internal components of AWS or Azure and GCP and generate a IP address. Okay, so that is why the external IP will be generated in my case. It will not be generated. There is a project called metal LB. using which you can expose the applications on Minikube as well. You can search for the project called Metal LB. Okay, so you can expose the it can generate you one public IP address as well. But this is still a beta project, you know, and you don't have to try that as well because if you know the concept that's more than enough you can if you have a easy to instance you can try it or else just understand that you will get a public IP address something like thirty two dot forty eight or one hundred dot something and you can share this IP address to your customers or someone and they can access that using the public IP address. Okay. So this is the concept of how to expose your applications. Okay, but I told you about three concepts, right? Whenever we are talking about the service. I promise you that a service can do three things one is load balancing. To is service discovery. and three is exposing the applications. Okay. So third part is clear to you till now right because I showed you using node port. I showed you using load balancer mode. How does this work and all so now let us see the second part that is service discovery. Okay, so to understand the service discovery just make a very simple change Cube CTL edit SVC. Sorry. Again, we need the service name. If not, we will get both the services in edit and it will just be confusing. So kubectl get service. This is the name of the services kubectl edit service followed by the name of the service and now what you will do to understand the concept of discovery just modify the selector. Okay search for selector. See if you are not comfortable with the Cubectl edit what you can also do is just use the same service dot yaml file that you have created. Okay, but the only condition is whenever you have created this you must have used the apply command. Okay, so either if you have used the Cubectl apply command to create the service then you can just say vim and edit the service and reapply the service. or else you can also use the kubectl edit command. Okay, whichever is easy for you, but I will recommend this one always create your services using the apply so that in future you can modify it. Now what I'll do is I'll just come here and remove one character. Let us see if even if you can access your applications like this, then kubectl apply. Minus F service dot yaml. Okay. So now the labels and selectors are different. So the labels of your pod is sample application. What was that? So the label that you have on your pod is sample python app, but here on the service it is sample python AP. So let us see if the service Discovery will be able to detect the ports. What I'm saying is it shouldn't because What is the reason why it shouldn't detect because the labels and selectors are different. So what was the curl command that I used? Let me show you from the browser itself. This is the curl command, right? So let me just copy this one more time. and let me try from the browser. So this time you'll notice. Sorry, I just need this one, right? I don't need curl. So this time you'll notice that the application is not accessible. Why is it not accessible even using the curl? You can see that you will not couldn't connect to the server. So by just changing the labels and selector by just changing the selector you understood that the service is not discoverable. So again go back and modify so you will understand the concept of how service is using the service discovery concept using the labels and selector. So now let's let me reapply. Cube CTL apply minus F. So just give it one minute right because the cube proxy has to update the rules the IP tables and all the things have to be updated. So just give it a minute don't get pan. I mean don't go into situation of thinking. Oh, this is not working. It will just take a minute or not not even minute sometime. So sometimes the refresh will take time. So you'll notice that the service discovery is done. So now what are the two things that you have already learned one is service discovery and one is how to expose your application. So finally now I'll show you the load balancing as well. So you have two applications right Cube CTL get pods. Why you need load balancing I explained like if there was only one replica if there are a hundred requests, it will be difficult for one replica to serve all the requests. So if you have depending upon the load of your application, you can create multiple replicas, but by default the deployments or the pods do not have load balancing. If you create service, you will get the load balancing. This is what I explained now. Let us see that in practical so far that I have the Cube shark as well. So What I am doing Cube Shark is a very simple application. You can also install the Cube Shark and I recommend you to install Cube Shark. I'll make a full detailed video on Cube Shark as well. But if you want to install the installation is very simple. Just go to the Cube Shark documentation. Okay, so you will understand a lot about kubernetes if you you know, if you have this Cube Shark because it explains you how the traffic is flowing within the cluster and all of the things so go to the install and run page here. and this is the simple curl command just execute this curl command or if you are on Mac, you can just run these two commands and your Cube Shark is up. Then you just have to run this specific thing called Cube Shark tap minus a or you can do Cube Shark tap, but this will only be limiting your Cube Shark to one single namespace. If you want to expose Cube Shark to all the namespaces or if you want to understand the Kubernetes traffic flow for all the namespaces just run this command called Cube Shark tap minus a and you will see this speech. Okay, so you can access the Cube Shark browser on the port called double eight double nine localhost colon double eight double nine. It will automatically open in your browser. So you will get this beautiful page where you know, you can do lot of things on Cube Shark. So this video I'm not going to talk about the details of Cube Shark. I'm just using this to explain you the concept of load balancing in service, but I'll do a dedicated video on Cube Shark where I'll explain you how does the traffic flow and all but here I'll just spend two minutes to explain you. Okay now let me run this curl command five times. Okay, so this one I'll just copy it and I'll run for five times so that you can understand let me run for six times and show you the load balancing one. Okay, let me remove this so that it will not print the output. Let me just remove minus L. One two three four five and six now what should be the expected output is The kubernetes service has to send request three times or you know using the round robin it has to send request to one seventy to seventeen zero dot seven as well as one seventy to seventeen zero dot five. Let us see we made six requests. Let us see if the requests are you know segregated amongst these two parts or not. Okay, let me go back here and let me see. So once the request went to one seventy to seventeen zero dot five. Then okay, let me just refresh this page called apply just let me apply and show you. Perfect. Let me rerun. Sorry, I had some old data. Let me do it one more time. One, two, three, four, five and six. Okay. So sorry guys, I had some refresh information. So because of which it was not showing but now what you will see here is when you apply this thing I think it is taking some time to refresh. And get the data just give a minute. Yeah, sorry had to restart the Cube Shark. So I just created it before the demo and for some time, you know, the proxy was disconnected. So what I did was I went back and restarted the Cube Shark. So I'll show you how to restart these things and all in the video where I demonstrate about the Cube Shark. But what happened was this is a Cube Shark which is running and if you see here error while proxying the request and context cancel. Okay. So this was the error I got and what I did was I have reestablished the connection. with between the CubeShark and my Kubernetes cluster. Okay, so this is the command in general called CubeShark proxy. And what it will do is it will reestablish the connection. So I just did not want to go into the details, but yeah, unfortunately, because the connection was disabled. So I had to explain you all of these things. Perfect. Now, but the demo that I wanted to show you here is now the CubeShark is back. You will see that absent six requests, right? So these are the six requests that absent. and see what is happening. So once the request went to one seventy to seventeen zero dot five and again the request went to one seventy to seventeen zero dot seven again. It went to one seventy to zero dot seventeen zero dot five. One seventy to seventeen zero dot seven again. It went to one seventy to seventeen zero dot five. So what is happening is kubernetes service is doing the load balancing. Okay. So what I did is I try to access the application on this specific port called one ninety two dot one sixty eight dot sixty four dot ten and using which the request actually this is the service and it it is once sending the request to one seventy to seventeen zero dot seven and another time again you hit the same URL and it is sending the request to one seventy to seventeen zero dot five. So this is of the packet is actually traveling within your Kubernetes cluster or you know, this is the packet flow what is happening is so if you take this is the start of the request I as a user I executed one ninety two dot one sixty eight sixty four dot ten and this is the IP address. So it went from my machine. So this is my machine IP address from my machine because I'm using the browser or the curl command. So it went from my browser all the curl command. This is the source right? So what is the source source is the point where you have started the execution. Okay, so from source if you look at the IF config and if you just grab for this IP address, One ninety two one sixty eight one ninety two dot one sixty. Okay, let me even search it here. So just run if config and if you search here, you will notice that this is my machine IP address one ninety two dot one sixty eight dot sixty four dot one whether you are doing from curl or whether you are doing from the browser. You will see that this is my source or this is my origin. So from my laptop I have executed this specific IP address that is one eighty two dot one sixty eight dot sixty four dot ten. What happened is from here the request went to one seventy two seventeen zero dot one. This is my mini cube IP address. Okay from here it went to the service. So this is the packet flow guys and if you want to understand the packet flow in detail. This is the tool called Cube shark and I'll explain you when we actually deal with this specific Cube shark individual video. So I'll explain you how this packet is traveling. Okay. So this is the request and this is the response from there. It went to minicube what happened once it went to minicube like, you know, this is the URL context path. This is the host IP address and then it went to you know, it sent this response and from there it sent the request to So you can understand these things in detail. You can replay right when you replay, you know, you can do this action one more time or you can also you know capture the packet and you can debug it with some external tools. So you all know about Wireshark probably you can capture this packet and you can execute against. Wireshark as well so that you understand more details about the packet you can use TCP dump. So these are some of the things let's not go into the detail of this tool, but we have understood the three concepts, right? So here using Cube Shark. I explained you the concept of load balancing then using you know, the browser and the terminal itself. I explained you the service discovery concept and also the What was the other thing I explained you how to expose the application. So these are the three things that I wanted to cover as part of this video. I hope you enjoyed the demo and Cube shark. I'll do a dedicated video because this is a must-have tool for every DevOps engineer. This explains the traffic viewer of Kubernetes and most of your Kubernetes concepts will become clear here. You can also do a service map where you can see what are the different services how one service is talking to the other service. Then, you know, you can look into list of parts in the namespaces here and you can you know blog. Sorry access understand the traffic depending upon the TCP request HTTP request. You can do layer for layers and all of the things so I'll explain this in detail. But for now, this is the video for today. if you enjoyed the video click on the like button if you have any feedback for me put that in the comment section and finally don't forget to share this video with your friends and colleagues. Thank you so much guys. I'll see in the next video. Take care everyone. Bye.