Hello and my name is Abhishek and welcome back to my channel. So today we are at day 33 of our complete devops course and in this class, we are going to see how to deploy our first application in kubernetes. So before watching this video, I'll highly recommend you to watch the previous videos day thirty 31 and 32. The reason why I ask everyone to watch these videos is because from Docker to kubernetes like you know before you start your journey with kubernetes. You have to understand the differences between Docker and kubernetes. This is one part of it and after that you should also understand 2 things one is the architecture of kubernetes and the next thing is how to install kubernetes. Right. So we covered 3 topics in day thirty thirty one and thirty two. So if you don't have the knowledge of these things, then I will recommend you to not watch this video go back and watch the videos and then come back to it because only then you will understand today's concept. So from day 30 I have been stressing on few points where kubernetes is better than Docker and why people move to dock kubernetes one is because kubernetes is a cluster to is kubernetes offers you scaling that is auto scaling kubernetes offers you auto healing. right and kubernetes also offers something which is very important a enterprise level behavior, right? So using kubernetes you can support a lot of things for your containers. So these are the 4 primary things and to start with kubernetes to get out to achieve all of these things. You have to learn about few terminologies. Okay. So like we learned about the terminologies in Docker in one of our previous classes. Similarly, we should understand few concepts in kubernetes before we go into it. So I'm not going to talk about the architecture of kubernetes here because we already covered it, but I am going to introduce you to few things which will make your understanding on kubernetes better because I don't want to directly jump onto and explain like, you know, what is a pod in kubernetes and how to deploy a pod how to install your application. It will hardly take me 15 minutes to do that, but I will properly explain you the basics and then we will go with the demo. Okay, so that your fundamentals are clear. Firstly, we are moving from docker to kubernetes, right? I mean we are moving our thing from containers to container orchestration environment. So in kubernetes the lowest level of deployment is a pod. Okay, so in kubernetes you cannot directly deploy a container in docker what you are doing is you are building a container and you are deploying a container right in kubernetes also we will use these containers that you have deployed in docker because end of the day whether it is kubernetes or whether it is docker The end goal is to deploy your applications in containers, right? So that is the concept of containerization. But what kubernetes says is okay. Don't deploy your application and container as is but deploy to me as a pod know what is poured by we should deploy your container as a pod. Why can't you directly deploy as a container in kubernetes as well? So this has to be a fundamental question, right? Because once you start learning kubernetes, the very first thing that you will see is people talk about pod. Now if in Docker if you are installing your applications using containers why you have to install in kubernetes using ports. What is it and why is it different? Okay. So now basically a pod is described. Okay in terms of definition a pod is described as a definition. On or definition of how to run a container. Okay. So what does this mean? Let's say in Docker whenever you want to run a container what you would do is basically you would say Docker. Run minus D or minus T or minus IT followed by the name of the container then what you follow. I mean the name of the image then you would pass minus P to do some port mapping then you would say minus V to do some Mount volume a volume mounts. Then if you have some network you would say minus and you would pass the network details. So in Docker you are basically passing all of these arguments to run a container right in command line. Whereas in kubernetes what you will do is you will pass those specifications in the pod.yml file. Okay, so in kubernetes you basically have a wrapper or you basically have a concept that is similar to container, but it abstracts the user defined commands in pod dot specification yaml. So if it is confusing don't worry about it. I'm going to explain it in a very clear way. So what you do in kubernetes is you instead of container you will deploy a pod. Okay. Now a pod can be a single container or it can be multiple containers. I'll tell you why a pod can be multiple containers. What are the advantages but first for now just go with a single container. Okay, so assume you are building a pod with one single container. What you will do is similar to Docker. end of the day pod is also exactly like a Docker container. The only difference if when you have one single container, the only difference is here instead of you using a command called Docker run and then you pass all the different arguments. You will try to put all of them in a yaml file. Okay, so inside the ML file you will say something like this API version is V one then you provide the name of this container. Sorry of this pod and all of these things then you will provide the specification. So inside the specification you will provide all of the details of the container. Okay, so you have multiple containers option here and inside which you provide specification of your containers. So don't worry. Once you look into the definition or the yaml file of the pod, you will understand. Oh, okay. It is exactly similar to your container. But the only thing is instead of command line, you are trying to put everything in a yaml file. That's the only difference know why Kubernetes has to deal with this complexity. You can you might ask me a question that Abhishek if things are going well with Docker container and you can deploy everything as a container in Docker platform by Kubernetes has introduced this complexity. why you have to run things in kubernetes using yaml files. So the thing is kubernetes like I told you is a enterprise level platform and what it want to do is it want to bring declarative capabilities. Okay, so or it want to build a standardization. So the thing is you can put these yaml files. Okay in kubernetes we deal everything with yaml files. Okay, so whether it is pod resource whether it is deployment resource whether it is services we are going to talk about all of these things in future but everything will be written in yaml files only okay so you have to master yaml files you don't have to like you know mug up how to write a pod yaml file you don't have to mug up how to write a deployment yaml file don't worry about it we have bunch of examples and everybody make use of these examples only like whether it's a senior DevOps engineer junior DevOps engineer everybody use this example from official kubernetes documentation or from some samples, but the thing that I want to mention is you have to understand how yaml files are written. So only then you will become expert in kubernetes. Because every day we deal with yaml files in kubernetes. Okay now so like I told you pod is nothing but one or group of containers. So why it has to be one or group of containers. So most of the times a pod is a single container, but there are some cases where you have some, you know sidecar containers. or you have some in it containers. So what are these things like these are the things that support your actual container just to give you an example. Let's say you have a container. Okay, you have your application deployed in a container and this wants to read some config files or you know, this wants to read some user related files from another container. So in such cases what you will do is instead of creating 2 different pods in kubernetes you can put both of them in a single pod and what pod says is if you put one or 2 containers or multiple containers inside a single pod, I will ensure that kubernetes will ensure that both of the containers will have some advantages. So that's why you put one or group of containers inside a single pod when it is required. What are the advantages? So if you put group of containers in a single pod. Okay, let's say you have container a and container B and if you put both of them in one single pod in Kubernetes then Kubernetes will allow you shared networking. Shared storage. Okay, so this way what happens is container A and container B inside a single pod can talk to each other using localhost. That means to say if container A wants to talk to container B port three three thousand so it can simply access using localhost 3000. Okay, so the application can be directly accessed and the information can be retrieved or if both of them wants to share some files. Okay. So even in such cases because both of them are in one single point they can share the files as well. So that is one of the reasons why people put multiple containers, but it is a very rare case the usual practice for this is to create some sidecar containers or in it containers, which is a advanced topic which I'll explain going ahead when we talk about service mesh or when we talk about you know things some advanced concepts of Kubernetes. I will talk about why you put multiple containers inside a pod. But for now, if you understand there is a pod. And inside this pod of Kubernetes, you have a container. container and pod. So basically what Kubernetes does is it allocates a cluster IP address. to this pod. Okay, and you can access the applications inside the containers using this pod cluster IP address. So IP addresses are not generated for the containers, but they are generated for the pods. No, don't worry or don't overthink the concept here because it is fairly simple a pod is basically a wrapper. That kubernetes has created for a container to make the life of DevOps engineers easy. because when we try to deal with containers like hundreds of containers thousands of containers in production if you have a wrapper like pod which can define everything in a yaml file. Okay, which can say like if a developer can go to a git repository or a DevOps engineer can go to a git repository and look for the pod dot yaml file. He will understand everything about the container that okay. So this container is running on the application is running inside it on port at it has a volume volume mount. then you know, what is the networking of it or you will understand multiple details that you have for your Docker container. So Kubernetes has created a wrapper for it. Okay. So most of the cases when you are dealing with the pod you deal with a single container and you know, you access the pod. Sorry, you access the container using the cluster IP address that Kubernetes gave for pod. So who is using this cluster IP address? If you watch the previous videos cube proxy is generating this cluster IP address. Okay, perfect. So this is the concept of pod in kubernetes. So very first application that we are going to deploy we are going to deploy as a pod. Okay, don't worry. We are going to when we do the demo you will understand this even in a better way. But one more concept that I wanted to introduce here is Cube CTL. What is Cube CTL? So Cube CTL is nothing but like for Docker whenever you are trying to run any commands. You have the Docker CLI right in kubernetes. You have something called as Cube CTL. So Cube CTL is command line for kubernetes. Okay. So what is it? It's a command line tool for kubernetes. So you can directly interact with the kubernetes clusters. Let's say you have a kubernetes cluster and inside that you have ten nodes. Okay. So to understand how many nodes are there inside your kubernetes cluster. You can just use this Cube CTL command and say Cube CTL get nodes. Okay, so how you'll understand these commands. What are the different options? I'll show you don't worry. if you want to see how many parts are there, you can simply say kubectl get pods if you want to see how many deployments are there kubectl get deployment if you want to delete a deployment you want to create a deployment. So for such cases to interact with kubernetes, we have kubectl. So today's class we will first install kubectl. Then we will create a kubernetes cluster that is minikube Why will create a mini cube Kubernetes cluster because in last class, I told you I showed you how to create a Kubernetes cluster on AWS using cops. But for this you need to have some free credits on AWS. You can also run EKS or any other systems, but for that you need some free credits. So if you don't want to spend on your Kubernetes clusters, you can learn them using a local Kubernetes cluster that is minikube or k 3 s or kind or any Kubernetes clusters installation of all of them are fairly simple. Don't worry about the installations at all. But the only thing is when you use this local Kubernetes clusters, they are not as equal as your full-blown Kubernetes clusters, but for our demo purposes or for our learning purposes because we don't run huge applications. We are not running applications that are CPU and memory intensive. So even these clusters are fine. and we are not going to set up any high availability all of these things at this point. So you can use minicube so that you don't have to spend on your AWS. Okay. So first thing we will see is how to install Cube CTL then we will see how to create a Kubernetes cluster on your local using minicube. I have a complete video as well. where you can refer to this complete video. I'll share the link in the description. If you find today's video is going fast with respect to installation. Don't worry. You can refer to this complete video. So kubectl minikube and then we will see how to deploy a pod which is our first application on kubernetes. Okay, is the things clear till now? Let me stop sharing here and let me proceed with the demo part. So I stopped sharing Then let me share my terminal. Okay, just a second. Perfect. So now my terminal. Let me increase the font a bit. Perfect. So now you guys are able to see my terminal as well, right? the very first thing that we will do is start with the installation of Cube CTL. So to start with the installation of Cube CTL, Just go to your browser search for kubectl don't do anything. Just say kubectl installation. You'll go to this specific page called install tool kubernetes. Click on it then choose the platform. Do you want to install kubectl on Linux Mac OS or Windows click on for example, I'm using Mac OS. Let me click on Mac OS. then there are multiple options. Do you want to install it on Intel or silicon chip? So silicon chip is nothing but your Mac M one M 2 or your arm processors. These are related to silicon chip. But if you are using the old Mac, then you are basically on Intel. So just copy the script and your kubernetes instead Cubectl installation is done. So this is very very simple just copy the script just execute it. You will see that the kubectl is installed. So it barely takes a minute or so for the entire installation now once you have the kubectl installed just search kubectl version. So your kubectl is up and running. Perfect after this like I told you will proceed with the installation of a local kubernetes cluster. So here there are multiple options. You can use minikube k 3 s kind you can use a micro k 8. So there are multiple options, but in my case. the videos that I am going to demonstrate I will prefer minikube because many many people or many subscribers already are using minikube if I teach them in kind then they have to do some additional network settings. So that's why I'll proceed with minikube but just to let you know that on my local setup or whenever I am practicing things I prefer kind. So once you learn kubernetes, then you can also move towards kind but for easy way to start with kubernetes start with minikube. But why kind is better is because kind is basically kubernetes in Docker. That means to say your kubernetes nodes or your kubernetes entire setup as is done as Docker containers. Okay, this is a slightly advanced concept how kind handles kubernetes clusters, but you can create hundreds of kubernetes clusters even on your personal laptop using kind whereas with minikube. It's not possible. Okay, but for now, let's bother only about one single cluster. So let's use minikube. So Firstly install minikube. So to install minikube again go to your browser search for minikube. You will go to your minikube kubernetes page click on it. So you will find the installation suggestion where you will be asked with your operating system. Similarly, if you are Linux click on Linux then be very careful with the architecture. So if you are using xe at 664 use this architecture if you are using arm 6 4 thenclick on this button arm 64 is the arm processor. So most of the times people on Linux must be using this xe 8664 unless you change your configuration or you're using IBM P cluster or IBM Z cluster. Sorry P operating system or Z operating system. So in my case, I'm using macOS and you know, I am using the arm 64 processor. So as soon as I change this you will see that there is a change in the command. So let me copy these things here and let me execute. So as soon as I execute this one, you will see that minikube is installed. The reason why I did not do is I already have minikube but the installation is that's it like you just install these 2 commands and your minikube installation is done. You can just search for minikube and you will notice that your minikube installation is done. Perfect. So I have my Cube CTL. I have my mini cube by Cube CTL. Sorry, I just have my mini cube. I have to proceed with creating a cluster. Okay. So what is mini cube mini cube is a command line tool that will allow you to create a Kubernetes cluster. But right now your mini cube is only created your Kubernetes cluster is not created. So to do that the simple command is mini cube start. So if you just do mini cube start your Kubernetes cluster will be started but If you're using Mac or if you're using Windows understand that how many cube creates a cluster is it will create a virtual machine first on top of this virtual machine. It will create a single node Kubernetes cluster. Okay, what is it single node Kubernetes cluster like I told you? In production or in you know, real-time scenarios. We will use multi node Kubernetes cluster where we will have a master node or we will have 3 master nodes and we will have 3 worker nodes for worker nodes hundred worker nodes, whatever is the requirement but in general when you are doing high availability, you will have 3 master nodes and you will have n number of worker nodes. So it just creates one virtual machine on top of it. It runs a single node kubernetes cluster. So to create a virtual machine on top of your Mac OS or on top of your windows firstly, you need to have a virtualization platform most of the time it comes by default. So if you are on Mac all that you need to do is just run this command minikube so Okay, so you can just use hyperkit. This is a command. Okay, so hyperkit comes by default and So what I'm doing minikube start pass the memory requirements, whatever is the requirement that required and then hyper hyphen driver is equals to hyperkit. So here you can change the values. You can change it to virtual box. You can change it to hyperkit. Whatever is your requirement? Okay, so. Let's say you are not bothered about these things today's class. We are only learning about the basics of kubernetes. So in such cases even if you do this simple minikube start that is more than enough. Okay, so the only difference is if you are just doing minikube start then. The Kubernetes cluster will by default use your Docker driver. Okay, but Docker driver better you don't use it when you move to advanced Kubernetes concepts in such cases just use this command. Okay, where you will use minikube start and hyphen hyphen driver as hyperkit. Okay. So now I think I have spent enough time in explaining how to install kubernetes cluster. Now my kubectl is configured to understand that just say kubectl get nodes. Okay, when you do kubectl get nodes, you will notice that. kubectl is already connected to your kubernetes cluster and it is saying that okay there is one kubernetes cluster that is running sorry there is one node that is running which is called minikube node so minikube reference that node as minikube node and then the status is ready and this node itself is your control plane and data plane okay because you just have one node architecture here Awesome. So minikube is done kubernetes is installed. My notes are up and running. So what do you have to wait for so you can directly start with installation of pod but how to do it. So again go to your kubernetes documentation and search for pod. Okay. So if you see this like I told you pod is basically a yaml file. Okay, so you can simply copy this yaml file because we are just starting with kubernetes and even once you advance with kubernetes also you have to take this examples as reference because nobody is going to. mug up these things as it will not give you any advantage learning this specific things inside your yaml file is of no use all that you need to understand is like, you know copy this specific thing even for your future cases and just understand where do you have to update your comments? Okay, so yaml file will remain same whether you are creating one pod file whether you are creating tomorrow you might be creating pod for different application day after tomorrow you might be creating pod for another application the definition will be the same only thing that will change is these values so these are all the keys and the values will change okay so today let us try with the default image that is provided in the example called nginx but if you want to replace you can replace this image with any application that we have created in our previous applications or in our previous Docker demos. So we did lot of Docker demos where we created my first Docker or you know, we created some Golang based applications. We created some Python based applications. So that's fine. You can use any of those images or you can go with the default example that kubernetes is offering you here because we just wanted to run our first pod and see how pod works, right? So here name of the image is nginx one dot 14 dot 2. You can change it like I told you and then whenever you make this modification make sure you make this change as well. So here the image that he is giving I mean Kubernetes is giving us it says that the container port is at. But in your case your application container port can be 8000. It can be 9000. It can be anything so modify it accordingly. Okay, but in this case the image is this one and the container port is this one. So let us try to first compare this with the Docker command. Okay, so that everybody will be clear because you people are coming from Docker. So let us try to debug and see what is the equivalent command for this in Docker. So here we are just saying Docker. Run we are trying to run it. So Docker run minus D. So we are running it in the background and then hyphen hyphen image. You don't have to give image in Docker. You can simply say engine X this one hyphen hyphen name. What is the name? We are giving name as engine X. So this is the name and then minus P. 80 to 80. So this is the equivalent command to pod. Okay. the reason why I just explained you in this way is to make you understand that like I told you a pod is basically a specification or a specification on of how to run your container. So that's why I just showed you how the equivalent command looks in Docker save this one. So now you are Cube CTL will come into picture. Okay, so use this command called Cube CTL. which is similar to Docker CLI here. This is a kubernetes CLI the command you will say is create minus F pod dot YAML. So as soon as you do this you will see that your pod is created. That means your application is created. So how do you see in Docker? You will see Docker PS. So here you will say cube CTL. get pods. Okay, so you see that the kubernetes pod is running if you do minus o wide then it will print the entire details of this part. It said this is the IP address. You can simply do curl and then you can execute this specific IP address. You will notice that. Okay, so in this case you have to log into the cluster, right? So like previously if you are not exposing this application from Docker container to external application, we log into the container and we execute it, right? the curl command or something. So in this case you have to log into your kubernetes cluster. So the command is easy just do minikube SSH. Okay, so you will log into your kubernetes cluster. If you are using a real-time kubernetes cluster, what you will do is instead of minikube SSH you will SSH to the master or any worker node IP address and then you will just do curl to this specific thing and you'll notice that your application is running it says. Thank you for using nginx. So your first ever kubernetes application is created and you were able to execute as well using kubectl get pods minus o wide. Now the first question that you should ask me is abhishek. How do you remember all of these commands? So I have been working on kubernetes for a long time, but for somebody to start with there is a very good reference called kubernetes or kubectl cheat sheet. Okay, just just search for kubectl cheat sheet. You will see this specific page go to this page and you have bunch of kubernetes commands. Okay, so just go through this specific page whenever you want to find any specific command you are not understanding. So even I reference this page because it has bunch of examples and all of these examples are very very handy for us to understand. Okay, how let's say I want to search one command with respect to get the pods so I can search for get pods and it gives me all options. So you can it says that kubectl get pods get in all the namespaces get your complete description of the pod. So all of these things are very much provided here. So reference kubectl cheat sheet. Okay, so things are fine. I have just installed my first pod my pod is running Everything looks good. I was even able to access the pod once SSH into the cluster. Now, what is next? So you were able to do this. Similarly, you can also do Cubectl delete pod. Provide the name of the part. Okay, so your pod will be deleted. Okay, so Cubectl is basically lifecycle, but what is next? So there are 2 things next money's like I told you This part of the ML is a specification of your Docker container how a Docker container has to be run. So here you can enhance this specification as well. Like I told you here you can add more for example volumes. Okay, the syntax is not correct. Don't worry about it at all. You can add volume mounts. So these things we will learn as we go ahead because I don't want to complicate these things and explain you at this point of time itself how to add persistent volumes how to add volume how to add volume mounts to airport lot of these things are not required at this point because we are just learning Kubernetes. So for now understood you understood how to deploy your first application. The next thing you have to ask me is how to add auto scaling auto healing. So these were the topics I was telling you that this is how kubernetes is better than docker or any container platform. So you should ask me next question is how to add this capabilities because this is the reason why we started learning kubernetes because kubernetes is an enterprise platform, which we already saw by looking at the architecture and all of the things now. The next thing is kubernetes provides auto scaling or auto healing. How do you get this to my application? So if you ask me this question Abhishek how to get this auto healing auto scaling capabilities to my application. So the answer is what you will do is on top of the pod you have a wrapper called deployment in kubernetes. Okay, so you have to use your deployment in kubernetes to get these features like auto healing and auto scaling which will be our tomorrow's topics. Okay. So to start with kubernetes you also you always have to start with pod but to get this advanced capabilities. We will move from pod to deployment. Now you can ask me why we have to learn pod at all because we have to move to deployment. because deployment is just a wrapper. Okay. So tomorrow when I show you how to write a deployment dot yaml file you yourself will understand. Okay, so deployment and pod are pretty much same only thing is we are just changing the kind here. Okay. So here instead of kind pod, we are just modifying it and we are just saying it as kind deployment and we add more things like we add some other things like template and we say, okay, so this is my pod template specification, but More or less what a kubernetes deployment does is it acts as a wrapper on top of your pod which is going to be your way to deploy your applications. Okay, so it is going to be your way to deploy apps in kubernetes in real-time production scenarios. you will not deploy pods but you will actually deploy your deployments or stateful sets or demon sets these things which we will learn but to understand those things you need to have your foundations correct. That is you need to understand how does a pod works in Kubernetes. Okay. So today we understood how does a pod work we logged into the pod we try to execute the pod right all of these things are done. final things that I have to show you is how to verify the application. Let's say you have some issues with respect to the applications that you are running. So kubectl also offers some commands like you can say kubectl. Let me create the pod one more time kubectl. So the pod is created now using the kubectl itself you can debug your applications like you know, you can say kubectl logs followed by the name of the pod. Okay. So once you provide the name of the pod here, you will see the logs of your application. Okay. kubectl logs pod nginx, right? So as soon as you do it, you will see the logs. Okay, so it is still not running. Don't worry about it. But using kubectl logs, you can verify the logs of your kubernetes pod and using kubectl get pods as you get the pod information. What you can also do is you can just say kubectl describe Okay, followed by the name of your So if you do this, you will notice that it will print all the information of your pod. So what is the current status of your pod? So if your interviewer is asking you, how do you debug a pod? You can simply say them that I use a command called kubectl describe pod using which I get the status of everything inside a pod. whether the pod is currently running. If there is any error, what is the error in the pod? If there is any issue with the pod, what is the issue with the pod? So you will get all that information with the pod. And once you understand it, you can also get the information of kubectl logs pod followed by the name of the pod. If your application is throwing some logs, you can also, sorry, what is the issue here? Oh, sorry kubectl logs nginx. So if there is any logs currently this application the demo application that kubernetes has shared us it is not throwing any logs but in real time in production your application will throw the logs where you can see those logs using the kubectl logs nginx. Okay, so let's say if I log into this specific pod one more cluster one more time and if I execute the HTTP server or the Nginx server. You'll notice the logs even with respect to kubectl logs Nginx, but for now that's okay. So the interview question is how do you debug pods or how do you debug applications issues in kubernetes? So your 2 go-to commands would be kubectl describe name of the pod Nginx and the next command would be kubectl logs name of the pod. So this will be your to go to comments describe will explain your complete details of your pod. What is the issue with the pod and all and to verify the logs of your pod you can use the kubectl logs command. So this is the video for today. I request everyone who is watching this video to practice everything that we have learned today because going ahead the complexity will increase. We will go in we will like I told you will learn about deployments will learn about services. We will talk about auto healing water scaling all of these things for which it is very important for you guys to practice today's session and also watch the previous videos on kubernetes. Okay. So if you like today's video click on the like button, don't forget to share this video with your friends and colleagues. I'll see in the next video. Take care everyone. Bye.