Hello everyone. My name is Abhishek and welcome back to my channel. So today is day 39 of our complete devops course and in this class, we will be talking about Kubernetes are back. So as I promised you and also you people might have seen in the thumbnail that I am going to show you how to create a thirty days free. Open shift cluster. Okay. So this cluster is going to be free for 30 days and you can like create resources in this open shift cluster and you can play around with this open shift cluster. But let's talk into the details of it at the end of the video and currently let's focus on kubernetes rback. So what is kubernetes rback and why is it important? So I will say that kubernetes rback is a very simple. But complicated topic. So what is simple and again when I say it is simple, why is it complicated? So Kubernetes RBAC is a very simple topic to understand but if it is not implemented, right then it becomes very complicated to debug the issues or you know, even it becomes very complicated for your organization because Kubernetes RBAC is directly related to security. when something is related to security that itself means that it is very important. So you need to understand the concept of RBAC more than understanding how to create a service account or how to create role and how to create role binding because that takes very less time. Okay, so if you want to understand how to create a role how to create a service account and how to create a role binding You can also get things done in ten minutes. Like, you know, you can create a power attach it service account and understand the things but I'm not going to talk about those things instead. I'm going to firstly explain you the concept of our back how and why is it very important and after that I am going to talk about. Okay. What is service account? What is rule and what is rule binding? Okay. Perfect. So firstly, Kubernetes RBAC can be broadly divided into 2 parts. Okay, so the first part can be users. And the second thing can be your service account or you know, how services manage access in the Kubernetes that can be any applications that you are running in Kubernetes. So firstly, let's try to understand this user management. Okay, so If you have a kubernetes cluster, let's say you have been using kubernetes in minikube. Or you're using kubernetes in kind or any any other kubernetes platforms, let's say so out of the box you get administrative access to this clusters, right because they are your local kubernetes clusters and you have been playing around with this local kubernetes clusters for you know, learning kubernetes, but when you Try to use kubernetes in organizations. The very first thing that you would do is let's say this is your kubernetes clusters as devops engineers or kubernetes administrators. Your primary responsibility would be to define access. So if there is a development team if there is a QE team, okay, so how do you define what access should developers have on to this cluster? and what access should this QE engineer should have on this cluster. Okay. It's not that you know any QE engineer can come to this Kubernetes cluster and delete resources in let's say cube system namespace or let's say the QE engineer deletes something related to etcd. Okay, so these things can become very very worse If like, you know, if someone comes and delete something related to etcd then, you know, it becomes very difficult for your administrator or for your devops team to get back the original state of these things. So effectively have you can solve this problem is by defining our back. That means to say role-based access control. Okay. So what is role-based access control depending upon the role of the person? Okay, so are back. depending upon the role you would define access. So role-based access and this is the control that what you are trying to do. Okay. So this is one part of it. So how we are managed how we are going to manage the user management or how we are going to manage manage the access to users in your kubernetes cluster. That is one part of our bank and the second part is how you are going to do deal with the service account. That means to say let's say you have created a pod through deployment or through any other sources. You have created a port now what access does this part need to have on the kubernetes cluster. So should pod be having access to config maps should this part have access to secrets. Okay. So let's say as part of your application. You want to read config map as part of your application. You want to read secret. as part of your application. Can you delete like let's say you have you you have deployed a pod and what this part is doing. Let's say this part is a malicious part and what this part is doing is it is deleting some content related to API server. Okay, or accidentally it is, you know, removing some important files on your system. how do you restrict this? So again, the same thing similar to user management. You can also manage the access for your services or for your applications that are running on the cluster using the our back. Okay. So 2 primary responsibilities of our back is user management as well as managing the access of the services that are running on the cluster. Now how this is done on a broad level. Okay before I jump into the depth depth of how do you manage all of these things on a broad level in kubernetes. You have 3 major things. Okay for managing the our backs one is. Like I told you service accounts or users. second thing is called as kubernetes. Rolls or cluster rolls. third is role binding or cluster role binding. So I'll try to explain the difference of roles and cluster role role binding and cluster role binding as well. Don't worry about it. But first of all, these are the high level 3 things. that can define our back in kubernetes. Okay, but but but but how do you create users in kubernetes? Okay. So if we go back to the previous slide here, I told you there are 2 essential things one is users and one is service accounts. Okay, but how do you create users like for example, if you are using minikube, okay all these days you might be using minikube. Okay. So if you go inside the minikube, can you create a user like on my personal laptop? I can use it's a Linux. Let's say it's a Linux laptop. I can use something like user ad. Okay, and using user ad I can create a user on my Linux system and I can share this access like, you know with relevant I can say that, you know, I will create a user called developer and someone who. has this username and password. They can log into this Linux box and they can do specific set of actions on this Linux box. But how do you do this on kubernetes? So in kubernetes also can you use this command to create users? No, you can't. Okay. So what kubernetes says is kubernetes does not deal with user management. Whereas kubernetes offloads the user management to identity providers. So this is very important to understand because service accounts is something that you can create Okay, so anyone can simply log into a Kubernetes cluster even on your mini cube cluster. You can log in and you can create a service account. But this part is very important to understand because when you are going to work in an organization, let's say your organization is using EKS your organization is using a case or open shift. So how do you create these users? How can you say that? Okay DevOps engineer should log in with this specific user. or in DevOps team, let's say you have ten users. So probably you might create ten users for this DevOps users and probably there are ten developers. So you might want to create ten accounts or ten users for this developers and each of them should have only relevant access. So developer should not be able to delete resources QE people should at the most only read the resources and read the logs probably just as an example. Okay and DevOps engineers might want to do the administration of the cluster. So how do you do all of these things? So that's what kubernetes says is okay. I am not going to manage the users. I will offload the user management to identity providers. So I'll give you a very simple example. So these days let's say you are using any applications. Okay, the fundamental thing that you might have noticed is most of these application have options like login with Instagram. or very popular one is login with Google. And what happens is you don't even have to create account with this applications. Let's say there is a person who has downloaded an application from Play Store and you know, most of the times you get this option called login with Google login with Instagram or login with Facebook and what happens is this person gets access to this app without creating the user. right? So this is what exactly kubernetes also does so kubernetes says is I will offload the user management. Okay, so in kubernetes you all know that there is a component called API servers. So you can pass certain flags to the API server. Okay, I'm going to show you what that flags are. It's not a rocket science. Don't worry about that flags because always I tell you don't worry about syntaxes or don't worry about you know, how does the YAML look like always understand the concept. So in kubernetes the API server. Works as your OAuth server. Now, what is this or wait for it? Okay, so you can offload the user management to any identity providers. What are some of popular identity providers? So why can't you use I am users? That's what kubernetes is. Okay. So if you are using EKS platform, what kubernetes says is you you can use your I am users and using your I am users. Okay, you can log into kubernetes. So in between what you need to do is you have to create something called as I am provider or I am oauth provider. Okay and using this I am the person will log into the kubernetes cluster and already you have created users and groups in I am right. So if you have a user and if you have I mean if your user belongs to a group, so as you log into the kubernetes, so you get to log in with the same username and you get to log in with the same group. Okay. So this is how kubernetes offloads the user management to external identity providers. Okay, this this concept is same whether it is open shift whether it is EKS whether it is a case. So depending upon the identity provider that your organization is using this might change for example, your organization might be using LDAP your organization might be using Okta your organization might be using any SSO. So you can use all of these things kubernetes natively supports all of these things. Okay, but it is up to you how you want to configure this identity provider how you want to create users inside this identity providers. You can also use some identity brokers like key clock. So key clock is a very popular one many people manage their kubernetes identity, you know identity management or user management using key clock as a broker. You can connect to all of these things. Okay. So even if you want to try some things like let's say you have a access to production or you know, you can create a kubernetes cluster on Amazon. Let's say Today you can go to EKS and you can integrate EKS with key clock. and using key clock you can connect it with your github. So in your GitHub, you can create user management right as part of GitHub. You can collaborate with hundreds of people and you can create collaborators. You can create users in your organization who which user has what access in your GitHub. So using key clock you can connect to EKS and you can get the all of these users. Okay, this is how kubernetes offloads the user management and the second part is service service accounts, right? So service accounts. It's just like a yaml file. Everybody can create. Okay, so there is no different with respect to service account. So if you understood how to create users. And I will show you how to create service accounts. So service account is just like creating a pod. Okay, don't worry about it. There is simply like, you know, like you have your pod.yml you can create a service account.yml SA.yml for example. And inside the service account or yaml you will just define as part of your yaml file, you know, what should be your API version? What should be your kind? What should be a name of your service account? But then comes the interesting part. Okay, what will happen next? Let's say you logged in as a user or your application is currently running as a service account. By default, even if you are creating a port, you might have this question. Like all these days, I'm using some port. Okay, by default, whenever you're running a port, it comes with a default service account. Even if you're creating a service account or not, a service account gets created automatically and using the service account itself, Kubernetes port, whatever applications that you're running, it will be talking to the API server. For any or to that matter of fact, for connecting with any resources in Kubernetes, it will use this service account itself. If you are not creating service account kubernetes will create a default sir. There is a default service account kubernetes will attach the default service account to your pod. If you are creating a service account, then you can use your custom service account. But what happens after that whether you are logged in into your kubernetes cluster as a user or whether your application is running on a kubernetes cluster as a service account that is fine. Okay after that, how do you manage the rules or how do you manage the configuration? So to define access after this part Kubernetes supports 2 important resources that is called role and role binding. So you can also consider this as cluster role when it has cluster level permissions and you can consider it as cluster role binding when it has cluster level permissions. So this is not important at this point of time simply understand that Kubernetes does all of these things using role and role binding. Okay. Now what is this role and role binding? So once you create your once you application is running as a service account or you logged in as a user. The next part is how to grant access to it. So firstly you will create a role. Okay, let's say you are creating a role which says and you want to assign this role to the developers. So what you are saying is they should have access to chords. They should have access to config maps. They should have access to secrets within the same namespace. Okay to to have within a single namespace. You will create a role if they want to have access across the cluster, then you will create cluster role. That's the only difference but we will talk in detail as well. Okay, so you have created this role. Now you have to attach this role to the users, right? So to attach you will use role binding. That's the very simple concept. Okay, what is a role? So a role is a yaml file where you will write all the things like, you know, they need to have access to config map. They need to have access to secret. They need to have you know, even if it is a single user you will create a role and you will say, okay, so whoever gets this role attached to them like let's say there is a user called Abhishek. If you're attaching this role to the Abhishek, then Abhishek will get all these permissions. If you're attaching this role to XYZ person, so XYZ person will get access to all of these resources that you have defined in the role.yml. So you can consider or you can compare it with IAM policies. Okay, so once you attach all of these things or once you say that anybody who gets access to this role might have access to all of these things, but how do you actually assign them this okay, so you have created a role and there is a user how this user and how this service account and the role gets attached to each other. Okay, so to do this you use something called as roll binding. Okay, so the simple ecosystem will look like this. Service account consider it as user as well. and role binding. Okay, actually, sorry this arrow. So this is service account. This is role and this is role binding. So you will create a service account or a user. Okay, and you will create a role. using this role binding you will bind both of them together. Okay. So this is a very simple architecture. So if you don't have a role binding you will create a service you will create a role but both of them are not attached together. Okay. So if you have just a role binding you will create a service account but to bind you need a rule without having a role just having a role binding. You are not binding your service account with any permissions. So simply this will take care of. permissions this will be taking care of users creating user management and this will take care of binding the permissions to users. Okay binding permissions to user. So this is the concept of kubernetes RBAC. So simply if you are creating a role within a specific namespace. It will be called as role and if you are creating this role with in the scope of the cluster. It is called as a cluster roll similarly roll binding as well. Now, what is the difference between cluster roll and cluster roll binding? I don't think it is good to discuss in this specific class because if there are any beginners who is trying to understand this concept it will go over their head. So whenever we are doing the practicals, it will be very easy to understand the difference between cluster roll cluster roll binding roll and roll binding as well. Okay, so till here. This is the theory part of your kubernetes are back if you haven't understood any any specific topic here. You can put that in the comment section and I'll try to do you know more detailed video on that We will try to do a master class or something. But till now we only discussed about the theory part of Kubernetes RBAC. Now as I promised you, let me show you how to create a open shift cluster a free open shift free trial open shift cluster for 30 days. Okay, so you can make use of this open shift cluster for your learning. So let me stop sharing here. And let me start sharing the other screen. Share. Perfect. Got it, right? So I hope you people are seeing my Firefox screen, right? So I opened a incognito window and just search for open shift sandbox. Okay, so open shift sandbox. Once you open this one, you will notice that you know, you will get a free trail. What does it say here get 30 days free access? Okay, let me increase the font get 30 days free access to shared open shift and Kubernetes cluster. I already told you it's a shared cluster because this is just for your practice and to understand the concept of our back. All that you need to do is you need to create a account with red hat. Okay, so register a red hat account or you can also like, you know, if you have already a red hat account, you can make use of the red hat account. Okay. So in my case, I already have a red hat account. So if you don't have you can just create red hat account. It's just following steps and once you follow the steps you can create a red hat account. Okay, so let me just stop sharing here so that I can enter the details. Stop share and I'm trying to enter my red hat account details. So this is very simple like, you know, you create your AWS account, right? Similarly, you can also create a red hat account. Okay. Now I'm just creating a red hat account. Sorry, I'm just entering the details of my red hat account and this is public. Anyone can create a free account here in the open shift sandbox. Okay now I am logging in and let me share back my screen. Perfect. So now I am logged in. So the only difference is you will see the same screen, but now you know if you see this icon here that says that I am logged in now again click on start using sandbox. What you what you will get is a shared openshift cluster for 30 days in no time. Okay, so the openshift cluster is assigned to you and this cluster has you know, both developer hand administrative tabs, but in the administrative tab, you only have limited access like click on login with dev sandbox. Like I told you like, you know, this is the identity provider that openshift is using. In your case, this can be in your organization. This can be login with LDAP login with Okta. Okay, so you have created a red hat account, right? So this red hat account that you have created get saved in this dev sandbox. Okay, so they are using this as the identity provider to define. Okay, what kind of user is he easier paid user easier subscription user easier red hat user? Okay, you get all of these information. You send all of this information to the open shift cluster using this identity provider. Okay now as soon as I click on dev sandbox, okay, it will try to get the information of my specific user like what kind of user is this person. I just create a red hat account and provided all the details right depending upon that it gave me a red hat open shift cluster and this is how your production environments looks like okay all this time you might have used just kubernetes clusters, but you know here see what happens is this is my open shift cluster that is dedicated for me for 30 days and it's a shared cluster for example. Here what I can do is I can go to the workloads and I can look into the pods. I can look into the deployments and here I can switch through the namespaces, but because this is a shared cluster. I am only given access to this specific namespace that is created for me. Okay. So what this entire concept here is using openshift dedicated you will get a shared cluster and each person gets a namespace. click on the icon here on the username and you know, you get an option called copy login command click on that and again it will prompt you for login. Once you log in click on the display token and using this token you can log in through the CLI. So here what I will do is I will open my terminal. This is my terminal and just provide this same display token that you got from the URL and now you are able to log in to the open shift cluster from your terminal. Now, you can do all of the things like, you know, kubectl get pods. What happens is, you know, you will be able to see what are the pods that are running in that specific namespace. You only have access to that namespace. Okay, so because sometimes, you know, this cluster might take time in responding back, but it is hardly less than seconds. Let me create a deployment here kubectl create deployment Nginx hyphen hyphen image. Okay. Now what happens is a Nginx deployment will be created for me. Let us see if it got created or not. Now if I click on the deployments tab here through the UI also I can monitor right. So using the deployment apps know you will notice that you know Nginx deployment is created for me. Okay. So this is the Nginx deployment. And here, you know using the UI itself. You can scale down the parts you can scale up the parts. No, I scaled up the parts to 2. So this way you can play around and you can get the real feel of kubernetes cluster how kubernetes clusters are used within the organization, you know in the routes you can create Ingress. People have been asking me about ingress, right? So you can play around with ingress here. You can create services here, right? You can also use storage services like persistent volumes volumes. How do they work all of these things? So using this real-time production environment, you can understand not just the concept of RBAC. but you can also play around with this clusters and you can explore a lot of things how events are omitted. So these are the events. Okay. So what is happening within the kubernetes cluster? So engine export got created engine export got started. So kubernetes is trying to pull the image. Okay, and you can search for the events API Explorer lot of the things what people usually do what DevOps engineers usually do within the organization. you can get a feel of it and within the user management like I told you you can create service accounts. You can create roles. We can create role bindings which we will do in the next class. Okay in the tomorrow's class. We will use the same account and we will create service account will create roles and will create role bindings as well. Okay, so stay tuned for tomorrow's video and before tomorrow's video try to create this account because as you get more and more production or real-time and experience you'll be more confident and you will face the interviews very well. I hope you enjoyed today's video and if you have any questions, please put that in the comment section and don't forget to subscribe my channel Abhishek Virmala. Thank you so much. See you all in the next video. Take care.