Hello everyone, my name is Abhishek and welcome back to my channel. In today's video, let's explore Helm. So you will learn what is Helm, why Helm, what are the different components of Helm, how to install third party applications or Kubernetes controllers using Helm. Finally, you will also learn how to ship applications of your organization as Helm chats. Overall, this is going to be quite informative session. Just make sure you watch this video till the end. Also, to make it simple, I have prepared this GitHub repository. After watching this video, you can go through this GitHub repository for a quick revision. Now, all these MD files has everything that I'm going to cover as part of this video. You can find link to this github repository in the description perfect let's get started first things first what exactly is helm in basic words helm is considered as a package manager for kubernetes many of you might be familiar with linux so let's understand from the linux point of view just like how you have apt which is a package manager for Ubuntu helm in the same way is a package manager for Kubernetes. What does that mean? Today if I ask you to install any popular package on Ubuntu operating system, let's say if I ask you to install Python 3, you will not go to internet look for the steps to install Python 3 like probably you will not write down the steps somewhere prepare a script instead you will first run apt update to update the apt repositories then you will run apt install python 3 if I ask you to install let's say openjdk you will just replace python 3 with openjdk or if I ask you to install npm you will just use apt install name of any package that you want to install. In the same way, if you want to install any controllers on Kubernetes, on day-to-day basis, we use a lot of controllers, things like Prometheus, Grafana, Argo CD, Nginx Ingress Controller. What are all these? These are controllers in the world of Kubernetes. Or you want to install any applications such as Nginx, let's say, or Pzbox. In either of the cases, you don't have to go to the documentation. You don't have to list out the YAML files, all the Kubernetes resources that are required to install these applications. Instead, you can just use the helm command. first step, you need to add repository that holds the applications in the world of Helm, we call it as charts. I'll explain repositories and charts in a while. But for now, just understand as step one, you will add the repository and as step 2, you will just run the Helm install command. So using Helm install, you can install Prometheus, you can install Grafana, Argo CD or third party applications like Nginx. Whatever you use, as common things on your Kubernetes cluster. Mostly, you can install them using Perfect. So what is Helm? Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes, which allows you to install Kubernetes controllers or third-party applications. So Helm only allows you to install? Just like how app for Ubuntu can allow you to install the package. apt allows you to update a specific version of the package. Maybe first you installed Python 3 dot one. After a while you want to update the version of package using apt update. You can update that to 3 dot 1 2. You can update that to 3 dot 1 3. Similarly you can also uninstall or remove a package from here. Linux operating system. Helm is also capable of all of these things. So using Helm, you can install a Kubernetes controller or third party application. Using Helm, you can update their version. Maybe you have initially installed Argo CD 2 dot 1 2. You can update that to Argo CD 2 dot 13 using Helm. Similarly, you can also uninstall. And finally, what Helm supports, you can also bundle or you can package the application of your organization as Helm charts so that any people outside your organization or someone outside of your team in your organization can use the Helm command to install your application. Just like how you install Prometheus, someone else in your organization or someone outside your organization can also install your application using Helm. We have a complete demonstration for this particular thing. So I'll take a sample application and demonstrate you how to create a chart, how to use the Helm. But for now, I hope you understood this simple point. What is Helm? Now, the big question is why? Abhishek, I understood what is Helm, but do I really need to use it? Like, you know, if I want to install Argo CD, I can just run kubectl apply. Or if I want to install nginx, I can just use kubectl create deployment, right? Overall, I can install anything using kubectl apply or kubectl create. Yes, you know in the same way you can install anything on Linux using curl wget or shell scripts. You can install anything on kubernetes using kubectl. But no the major challenge comes. Let's understand from Linux point of view itself. Imagine you're working as a DevOps engineer and on every Linux machine of your organization. you have to install ten packages. Nginx, Apache, let's say Java, Node.js, Python. In this way, you need to install ten packages because your developers or test engineers, they use these packages on the Linux server. Now, if you don't have app as a package manager, Step one, you will prepare script for installing Nginx. You know, maybe you will be using a curl command to download the Nginx package. Then you will add the Nginx package to path. Before that, you might have to unzip the package. Then you have to do the configuration required for Nginx. So you will prepare a shell script for Nginx. Similarly, you will prepare a shell script for Java. Downloading OpenJDK, unzipping openjdk adding openjdk to the path providing the permissions you will write a script for it similarly you will write a script for python you will write script for java you might say okay abhishek i'll write ten different scripts that's not a problem now you don't only have to write the scripts you also have to make sure you have upgrade versions of the script different teams might be using different versions of Java. So within your shell script, either you have to make it customizable or for each version of Java, you have a different JavaScript and you have to make sure they are always up to date. Right? The scripts must be always up to date. Maybe the script is written 2 years back and installation mechanism of Java has changed completely. Right the script will no longer work. So every 2 months every 3 months you have to go through these scripts. You have to test the scripts to ensure they are working fine. Now this becomes becomes a huge maintenance overhead for the DevOps Instance and practically this is not possible because the example that I've taken is only ten packages. Maybe you need to install hundred packages and these packages also have some dependencies. So overall, you will be dealing with hundreds or thousands of packages on your Linux server. All of this can be avoided just by using something called apt. Just run install nginx. It will take care of all the dependencies, whatever nginx needs or just say apt install python 3. It will install python 3 with all the dependencies. it will add python 3 to your path it will provide the permissions you have everything that is required similarly if you want to upgrade a version you can do that with apt so it is reducing huge huge overhead for your DevOps engineering team same is with helm Right? Always compare Helm with package managers of Linux because the concept of Helm itself is heavily inspired from the concept of package managers of Linux. So, using Helm, you don't have to create multiple YAML files or you don't have to create multiple scripts for installing Prometheus, installing Argo CD, installing Grafana because in Kubernetes, Installing and configuring can be quite tricky. For Prometheus, you might need to create a namespace called monitoring. For Prometheus installation, you might want to create a service account for it, config map for it. Then you install Prometheus stateful set or deployment. Similarly, installing Argo CD is not only installing Argo CD, it might have config map, service account, and all of them have to be created in order So if you create script for each of them, it becomes quite complex. Just like Linux on your Kubernetes cluster, you might be dealing with some 20, 30 controllers and some 20, 33rd party applications. All of these can be eliminated using So just use Helm, you can install the package, you can upgrade the package, you can uninstall and you can do everything for the management of the package. I hope what is Helm and why Helm is quite clear enough. Just to repeat in less than one minute, Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes using which you can install Kubernetes controllers or you can install third party applications. You can uninstall them, update them, or you can also create your own Helm charts for the applications of your organization. If you ask why Helm? If you don't have help DevOps engineering team or SRA engineering team might have to create scripts for installing each Kubernetes controller and also for multiple versions of your Kubernetes controller. Team A can use Argo CD 2 dot 1 2. Team B might want to use Argo CD 2 dot one three and you might need a specific replicas of Argo CD for your UIT environment specific replicas for your broad environment, right? So you cannot keep creating multiple YAML files or you cannot keep creating multiple scripts helm comes as a rescue. Perfect. Now before we deep dive into practicals of helm, let's try to understand first how to install helm. This is important, right? You first need to have helm on your local machine only then you can do everything practically. It's very simple. Just search for installing helm. Take your browser search for install helm get to the official helm documentation and look for installing helm. Depending upon your operating system. If you're on macOS just run brew install helm If you're on Windows and if you have chocolate, you can just run this command or if you're on Ubuntu a different version of your Linux operating system, you have apt-nf package managers that can install help, right? So just go through this page and install help on your machine. But Abhishek, do I need to install anything on the Kubernetes cluster? For Helm, you don't have to install anything on your QAids clusters. Before, during version 2 of Helm, yes, that was a requirement where you might have to install Tiller, but from version 3 of Helm, you don't need to install anything on your Kubernetes cluster. Now, this is a great advantage, right? So from your laptop, if you are interacting with ten Kubernetes clusters, If you had to install a package on the Kubernetes cluster or a controller on the Kubernetes cluster every time you have to install as you keep adding Kubernetes clusters, then Abhishek how helm can interact with my Kubernetes cluster, right? I have 3 Kubernetes clusters. How does helm know that is helm on my machine know? Should it talk to this Kubernetes cluster or should it deploy the packages on these Kubernetes cluster or this one? Very simple just like how kubectl works, right? You might have multiple kubernetes clusters. What kubectl does kubectl looks for the current context on the kube config file, right? You have a kube config file within the kube config file. It will look for current context and whichever is the current context if this kubernetes cluster is the current context kubectl connects to that. If this is a current context cube CTL connects to that same is with helm as well, right for example. Now on my machine. If I do cube CTL config list or you know, if I just do I'm using kind so if I just do kind get clusters so you can see that I have 3 different Kubernetes clusters what helm does first. I'll show you that helm is installed if I just run helm version. No, I can see this output. That means helm is installed on my machine. Now what helm does Cube CTL config current context. So whichever is the current context, helm is connected to that particular cluster. So if I'm running helm install command now, it connects to this particular cluster. Okay, Abhishek, now this is clear. Let's go ahead and install nginx in the default namespace. How to do that? So you just need to run 2 commands. As I told you, first command is to add the repository second command is to install nginx from that repository. But Abhishek what exactly is this repository and you know what I am doing with this particular command. You haven't explained the concept of repository in hell. Don't worry. You already know this concept, you know, whenever you are working with Linux what happens when you do apt install nginx what app does like how is apt installing nginx it's very simple apt connects to repositories so by default there is a repository that is archive.ubuntu.com now all the packages whether it is nginx whether it is httpd or whether it is java python they are part of these repositories If the package does not exist in this repository, then there is no way you can install nginx. By default, the repositories like archive.ubuntu.com, they come up with commonly used packages. That's why when you run apt install nginx, this repository helps you install nginx. In the same way, you need to have a helm repository which has all the charts. What is chart? Chart is basically a bundle or a package of your application. So if I'm talking about Prometheus, so the bundle of Prometheus is called as Prometheus chart. If I'm talking about Grafana, the bundle of Grafana is called as Grafana chart. So within the helm repository, whichever charts you have, you can only install those charts. Abhishek, just like archive.ubuntu.com, is there any common repository where multiple charts are hosted? Yes. So this is the popular repository, which is called bitnami. So bitnami repository has most of the popular charts that you use on the day-to-day basis. So on your Kubernetes cluster, you can just use this bitnami repository. I'll show you as an example. You know if I just add this bitnami repository. Okay, I already have it added, but let me do it again. So if I just do helm repo add bitnami. Right it has all the popular charts to check you can just run helm. Helm search. If you just run helm search repo bitnami, you will see it has thousands of charts. Who is this bitnami bitnami is one of the popular or one of the common maintainers of helm. So they have most of the chats. for example, they have Redis, they have spark, they have Thanos, Tomcat, Valky Vault, whatever you are looking for. mostly they already have it. We can also search for a specific one. We wanted to install nginx right. So Helm search, repo, bitnami, grep, nginx. Great, it already has Nginx right. Again, I'll just repeat things here so that people are not confused. You all are not confused. So there are 2 important things. One is Helm repository. second is Helm chart. What is a chart Chart? is a bundle of the application or it's the package of the application? So for Prometheus, The developers of Prometheus or Bitnami, what they do? They take all the YAML manifests of Prometheus and they bundle it as a Helm chart. Whatever, if you don't have Helm chart, whatever are the YAML files, whatever are the steps, they bundle all that together and that is called as a chart. So for Prometheus there is a Helm chart. for ArgoCD there is a Helm chart. for Nginx there is a Helm chart. All of these charts are put onto the repositories right. So repository is a centralized location that holds your charts, the example that we're using is a bitnami repository which has thousands of charts. In the same way, for your organization, you can also create a repository and you can create charts for each of your microservice. If you're working in e-commerce application, You can create a chat for payments, You can create a chat for transactions, You can create a chat for Shipment, and all of this you can update to a common repository. We will also do this right in this demonstration. We will also do this, but it is too early for this at this point of this video. OK, So let's see how to install nginx Now. we learned what is repo. We learned what is chat. so To install nginx chat, helm, install, just provide what should be the release name of this chat. So I'll just call it as nginx itself, or I'll just say nginx v, 1 Right, followed by bitnami, Slash nginx, or I can simply copy it from here actually, But anyways, okay, Now let's see in the default namespace if nginx gets deployed, clear the screen kubectl. get nginx, my bad kubectl, get pods, perfect. So nginx v one is getting installed. but, Abhishek, in this command you provided something here like: why can't I just do helm, install bitnami, nginx. you need to provide name of the release right, just like repo and chart. there is another thing that you need to learn, which is called as release. so release is nothing but a deployed instance of your chart. definition can be confusing, but it's a very simple thing. you know. why do you provide a name of the release here? maybe 2 different teams in your organization. or you know, today you want to install a specific version of nginx. tomorrow you just want to upgrade. so you need a clear distinction. so you can just call it as nginx v one. tomorrow, when you upgrade, you can just change it to nginx v 2 or you can install 2 different versions of your chat right. so you call them as releases in the world of hell. so whenever you are installing any specific chat, just provide name of the release for that particular chat. Abhishek, I installed Nginx in the same way. Can I also install Prometheus? Why not just search for it first, Helm, search, repo, Vidnami, pipegrab, Prometheus. Yeah, Prometheus. I hope the spelling is right. Yeah, so it says there is a chart called with Nami slash Prometheus. Let's see if that works. Cube CTL, My bad helm install. Let me call it as Prometheus itself. Bitnami, slash Prometheus. Now let's see if it is going to install Prometheus for us. Cube CTL, get pods. great, it is installing Prometheus alert manager and also Prometheus server. now you might have realized how powerful is helm. just using one command- repo add- is something that we did only once. we just added bitnami repository one single time. but after that I'm just searching if that package or if the chart is available in the helm repository. If it is available, I'm just running the helm install command right. So till now, what did we learn? We learned 3 commands. 1, we learned about helm repo add to add the repositories. We learned helm search command to search for a particular chart in the repository. Then we learned helm install command to install that particular chat. Great Abhishek, What if I want to install something that is not part of bitnami? Maybe let's take an example. You know I'm just giving it a guess. Let's say something like Argo CD. I'm not sure if it is available as part of bitnami. Let's just give it a search helm search repo, Followed by bitnami. Yeah, pipe grab, Hyphen, I, Argo CD, not just to Search in a case insensitive way. Yeah, so you can see that Argo CD is not part of bitnami. and similarly, let's say, I'm working on AWS and I'm Interested in installing AWS load balancer Ingress controller. See, even that is not available. AWS Ingress controller is also not part of Bitnami. In such cases, you don't have to panic because it is not your responsibility create Helm chart for it. Of course, if you want, you can do it, But by default what you can do is you can just search for AWS documentation. I just search for: install AWS load balancer controller with Helm and If I scroll down, There is this section which says that, Abhishek, This is the repository where EKS or ALB controller is available. So it says you can just run this command. Helm repo, add, this is the name of the chart. They called it as EKS and these are the EKS charts. And it's always a best practice whenever you are installing, just update the chat, as I told you, update the repository, my bad, okay. now, now, if you search for helm search repo, EKS, so you will see there are charts related to EKS and one of the chart is ALB controller, grep ALB. It might be called as Elastic Load Balancer, maybe. Okay, there must be something with that name. So they have AppMeshController. they have. It should be somewhere AWS. Or let me just search for Load Balancer and see load. Yeah, so AWS Load Balancer Controller. mean name might be different, but AWS load balancer controller. Now you know what I need to do. Helm install, name of the chart, name of the release, my bad, followed by EKS slash ALB controller. So we can quickly do that. Helm install. I'll just call it as ALB as a name of the release and EKS slash- AWS load balancer controller. Okay, it says because of some restrictions there might be some prerequisites for it. But however, now you learned this is how you look for a chart and this is how you install a chart within the repository. So there might be some steps where you know, along with helm install, it is asking to pass few arguments. Right now you don't know what are these arguments, what is values.yaml. So that's why I'm not going into it. But by the end of this video, you will understand what are these arguments and why are they passing them. Okay, so we learned how to install using helm. But I told you, you can also uninstall using helm, right? How can you uninstall using helm? It's very simple helm. Uninstall engine X. Okay, it says what was the command that we used to install engine X helm install. Or I can just do helm list. Right, so we said engine X V one. So I just listed the releases now I can just do helm uninstall nginx v one that's it nginx is uninstalled if i search for kubectl get pods either they are terminating or it is completely terminated similarly let's uninstall prometheus helm uninstall prometheus if you observe carefully what i am providing here i am providing the name of the release right because As I told you release is the deployed instance of your chart. Whenever you are installing the chat, you are providing a release name for it. So during the uninstallation also you just need to use the name of the release cool. So we also learned how to uninstall using help. Now one of the important things to learn. Okay, you learned about third-party applications. You learned about Kubernetes controllers, If you are working as a DevOps engineer, within your organization, how can you bundle applications as Helm charts? And how can you deploy those applications as Helm charts on your Kubernetes repositories, clusters? Or maybe you can share that with some other people, and how can they deploy your applications as Helm charts? This is important to learn as DevOps engineer. Let's try to understand that. And for understanding it, I'll take a classic example, instead of just explaining with some random things. Let's assume you are a DevOps engineer working for e-commerce application or your company is an e-commerce company. And within this e-commerce company, you are a DevOps engineer for a team where you are working for payments and you are working for shipment. So payment and shipment 2 microservices that you are working for. And also, like, let's say there are only 2 microservices that your organization has, anything that you want to understand. Now, as DevOps engineer, you know, you will deal with deployment of both payment and shipment, right? So let's first see how you can create a helm chart for payments and how you can create helm chart for shipment. So first a chat for it then a chat for it. Then I will add both of these charts to a repository right so that anybody can first add this helm repository somebody outside your organization and they can either install this chart or they can either install this chart just like how we did with Prometheus. Viknami was our repository and Prometheus was our chat. Similarly, the name of the company can be the repository if the e-commerce that you're working for let's call this as maybe let's give it a random name best e-commerce or best commerce. So this is a name of the company for example. So best commerce can be the repo name and Payments will be one chart under it. Shipment will be another chart under it. So for doing this, we'll go back to our terminal, right? I'm not taking any source code. Let's not complicate it by, you know, taking source code of the e-commerce application. What I'll simply do is I will use a Docker image called busy box. So busy box is a sample Docker image. So for both payments and shipment, I will use the same Docker image. I'll just pass a log message to busy box where on the payments Helm chat, if you run it, it will say I am a payment service on the shipment. If you run the same busy box image, it will say I'm a shipment service because this is purpose of your learning, right? You don't need a source code because when you are dealing with help, you directly deal with Docker images. or you deal with Kubernetes Ports. So I've taken a Docker image called busy box and we will understand both of it. Cool. All the steps are provided in this GitHub repository. If you are unable to follow the commands that I'm executing just go to 0 for create Helm chat. So you will find every command that I'm executing right now. Okay as step one first, let's see. Okay, great. So I'll create 2 folders mkdr-p instead of helm repo. I'll just call it as best commerce. Right and within this payments and shipping now I'll go to best commerce repo cool and you don't have to create multiple files inside it what Helm does so Helm provides a cram and called Helm create where it creates the complete template that you need. So if I do Helm create. Payments Now within the payments folder, you will see lot of Helm related files are created just like ansible when you're doing ansible galaxy in it, right? It creates the complete folder structure for you. Similarly, Helm create payments. Right it will also create a folder structure for us. And I will also do the same for another microservice Helm create shipping. Now LSF and LTR you have payments and if I do CD payments and look for the files within it there is chart.yml there is values.yml and there is a folder called templates. You can ignore this folder called charts. This is basically for dependencies. Let's say along with their application, you want to install Redis or along with their application, you want to install Valky. Then you need this child charts repository. For now, let's ignore it. There are only 3 important things. One is charts.yml, one is values.yml and one is templates. every time you run Helm create, These 3 things are created. CD, shipping. Again, you will see chart.yml, values.yml, templates. What exactly are these? What is this chart.yml? What is values and template? first, chart.yml. So whenever you are creating your own Helm chart, chart.yml acts as metadata for your chat. So you can provide things like who is the owner of the chat? What is the version of the chat? What is the version of application deployed in the chat? All such metadata related information you can provide as part of the chat.yml. Then you have templates folder. what do you put within the templates folder? You will just provide deployment.yml file. So to install nginx or to install busy box or anything. You either need a deployment or yaml or you need a stateful set kind resource or you need a team on set kind resource whatever is required. You just put that yaml file within the templates folder right and let's say there is a service account put the service account or yaml file. Let's say there is a config map put the config dot yaml file so take all the YAML files and put those YAML files within the templates. Because you are creating a Helm chart for your application. So whatever are the resources that you need to deploy or whatever are the resources that you need to bundle, you will put all of them within the templates folder. But Abhishek, where can I get all of these things? You must already have it, right? Because if you have containerized your application, and if you are already deploying your application within Kubernetes, you will have the deployment YAML for your application You will already have the service account for your application. You will already have config map all the required dependencies. So put all of them in the templates folder. Now, why do you need a values dot YAML? Right? Abhishek, what is the purpose of it? Very simple values dot YAML is used to make any customization to the template. What does that mean? Imagine you have a UAT environment and you have a production environment. On the UAT environment, you want to install 2 replicas of your deployment, whereas on the production, you want to deploy 3 replicas of your application. So what you can do, the deployment.yaml which you put within the templates folder, you can customize it using the values.yaml. Now I'm going to show this practically but values.yml is used for customizing any file that you put within the templates folder. You can customize your deployment. You can customize your service account config map so that for different environments within your organization, you can deploy with different specs on to UAT. You can deploy with a specific replica account. You can deploy with a specific version of the image. on to production you can change those specifications not the version of image, but you know, it's usually bad practice but replicas or maybe resource request resource limit this kind of things. Great. So let's see this with as I told you with a busy box image. Now we'll go back to payments first will start with payments. So within payments first, I will head to the template folder and within the template folder. See it already gave you bunch of examples, right? So I'll just update my deployment.yaml vim deployment.yaml I don't need all of this. This is just an example that is provided with lot of customizations. So I'll just remove this deployment.yaml file and I'll replace the one that I already have. Okay, so this is the one that is in the GitHub repository. It looks same like your deployment.yml file, but if you observe carefully, there are few variables here. The name of the deployment, there is a variable. The label of the deployment, there is a variable. For replicas, I just hard coded with one, but Again, the match label, there is a variable. And even for the image of the container, there is a variable, right? Why are we providing these variables? So that we can customize them with the values.yml. So how do I add the values.yml file? So in the values.yml file, just go back. Vim values dot yaml. Again, this is something that comes out of the box. You don't need the out of the box one. You can just remove it or you can just update the out of the box one as well. Okay, let me just get rid of all of it. Perfect and in the github repository. I have provided you an example of values dot yaml where Image. If you noticed in the deployment or yaml file repository name was a variable. That variable will be updated with busy box. Similarly tag was a variable which will be updated with latest pool policy was also available which will be updated with if not present. And I'm passing a simple app message as I told you instead of creating from the source code a payment service shipping service. You know, I'm just passing message to the busy box so that when we deploy payment service, it says it's a payment service when we deploy a shipping service. It says a shipping service just a log message. That's it. So repository variable is updated with a value tag is updated with a value full policy is also updated with a value. So if you look at templates now, templates, and deployment.yaml. See, this will be updated. Name, image name, image value, and the app message. Perfect? Good. We also have to provide a charge.yaml. As I told you, metadata is important. So let me provide the charge.yaml. I think it should be already updated. The default one should be good. Yeah, it is good. So it says payments is the name of the chat and this is the version of the chat. This is the app version of the chat. I'm not going to change it because it looks perfect. Only thing I might want to change is app version. This is specific to your application. I'll just say one dot o dot o. Great. Similarly, we will also update the shipping service related thing. So let's go back to shipping. This is exactly what you would do when you join an organization, right? So within the shipping, again, you will go to templates and probably deployment.yaml, remove everything that's in the deployment.yaml. Out of the box, it provides all the variables, so it's not required. And this time. The only difference that I'm going to take between shipping and payments deployment at yaml. So I'll copy almost the same thing. Okay, I'll copy the exact same thing only in the values. I'm going to change it right deployment is same only in the log message. I'll just call it as a shipping service. In real time, you will change the repository name and the image name. For different microservices in your organization, you will have a different repo name and image name, right? In real time, you will just change that. Now, going back, values.yaml. So again, I'll just replace everything in the values.yaml and update this. with again image tag full policy and a app message. Okay. Great. this is the values dot ml. I'll just keep it as is shipping service safe chats dot ml is already updated. Now, how do you create a Helm repository for it. But before that, you need to create a package, right? You need to bundle them into a chart. Command is very simple. Helm package shipping. Sorry, I just need to go back. Helm package shipping. Now this entire thing is saved as a chart. So you can see here a zip file is created as I told you it's a bundle but in the world of helm we just call it as a chart. Then I'll again do helm package payments. Another zip file is created in the world of helm will just call it as a chart. Now all that I need to do is I just need to run this command called helm repo index followed by dot. Okay now LSF and LTR you will see this is a chat this is a chat and this is the index dot yaml that got created using the helm index command cat index dot yaml. So it says this repository has 2 charts one is the payment chat one is the shipping chat. So you can just publish that index dot yaml and You know, you can just publish that entire bundle to either Nexus Artifactory or any centralized location within an organization people who wants to use that helm repository. They can just do it by using helm add. Sorry repo add command, right? So right now I don't have Artifactory or Nexus. So I haven't created that otherwise you just have to provide a centralized location. You can also use GitHub pages and others can use the helm repo add command to add it and look for charts within the repository. Now that's not very difficult thing. to set up that Artifactory or Nexus, it's going to take a lot of time. So I'm just skipping it. Now what you learn till now is more than enough. Now during the installation while installing EKS, you must have seen that they were passing some values. Now, what are these things? Now, these are nothing but values dot YAML variables, right within Helm chart. So within the Helm chart for AWS load balancer. They have a values.yaml and within that values.yaml, you are not using the hard coded values, but you are updating the values, right? That is what you can do using hyphen hyphen set. Whenever you are installing a Helm chart, so you can just look for if they have any values. If they have the values, you can set the values using hyphen hyphen set. But Abhishek how can I look for the values like how will I know within AWS load balancer, right? These are the values that I can set very simple. So you can just copy the name of the chart. You can just say helm show values followed by the chart. And it will exactly show you what are different values that you can pass. Whenever you are installing it in production or whenever you are installing it in multiple environments, you can use this particular feature as you play with helm. You will understand more about you know, why are you setting these values but first get started with the examples that I have provided in the GitHub repository. It is the best place to get started. So just go through the repository. I provide that the link in the description and try to Practice what the things that we have learned in today's video 2 major things, right? How do you install? The charts from the external repositories and how you can create charts for your repositories Because today is your first day you might have felt templates values.yaml little confusing But as you keep practicing, it's a very simple thing templates are used for customizing deployment service account config maps Values.yml is used to pass values to the templates. That's it. If you have any questions, do let me know in the comment section. Thank you so much for watching today's video. See you all. Bye-bye.